# Teacher Evaluation - Mr. Roberts

Please rate Mr. Roberts on the following topics. (1-low, 5-high)

| # | Statement                                      | 1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 |
|---|----------------------------------------------|---|---|---|---|---|
| 1 | Mr. Roberts comes prepared to class.         |   |   |   |   |   |
| 2 | Mr. Roberts sets clear expectations.         |   |   |   |   |   |
| 3 | Mr. Roberts encourages student participation.|   |   |   |   |   |
| 4 | Mr. Roberts brings a positive attitude to class. |   |   |   |   |   |
| 5 | Mr. Roberts cares about me as a person.      |   |   |   |   |   |

Please write a response to each of the following questions. Include as many specifics as possible.

What is your favorite part of this class?

What are Mr. Roberts’ strengths as a teacher?

What suggestions do you have to make class better?

Please add any additional thoughts you have about this class or Mr. Roberts.

Behind the Scenes Act 2: Teacher Evaluation

## OVERCOMING PUSHBACK

Look, there is no denying that holding students to high expectations is more challenging than letting them take the easy way out. And
---
PAGE BREAK
---
while there will be challenges along the way, movie-type teachers are willing to accept, and overcome, obstacles and questions such as these:

**My students already know my expectations.** I frequently hear this piece of feedback. But too often, we *assume* our students understand our expectations rather than being absolutely certain that they *know* our expectations. Just like the key concepts taught in your class, the expectations need to be taught, modeled, and performed on a regular basis in order for them to stick.

**But what about the students who cheat?** A student who wants to cheat on an assignment is going to cheat regardless of whether it’s in class or at home. So rather than creating a rule (see Hack 1) based on the *chance* that a small minority of your class *might* cheat, I instead recommend that you focus your expectations on the fact that the vast majority of your class won’t cheat or otherwise betray trust.

So how do I let my class know that I expect them not to cheat? I follow these three simple steps.

1. During my explanation of the assignment, I tell them, “I am trusting you not to cheat on this. Don’t let me down!”
2. As students pick up the take-home test/assignment, I require them to look me in the eye and say, “I will not cheat.” I often repeat my “Don’t let me down” comment to each of them individually at this point.
3. When they hand in their work, I ask them to look me in the eye yet again and say, “I promise I did not cheat.” As I take the assignment from them, I usually add, “Thank you for being honest with me.”