Professor McGonagall exemplified what it meant to get her students involved in the learning and assessment process. Her lessons—from teaching Ron Weasley to dance and transforming animals into water droplets—centered on providing students with an awareness of what they were learning and a clear understanding of why they were learning it. By engaging her students in this manner, Professor McGonagall modeled that the application of learning far outweighed mere content knowledge.

This approach gave all her students, from Hermione Granger to Neville Longbottom, a part in the learning process, and also allowed them to recognize their strengths and weaknesses regarding the topic. Additionally, she encouraged her students to experiment with their ideas as a way to assess whether or not they had reached the learning target. At the culminating scene of the series, she told Seamus Finnigan to use his “particular proclivity for pyrotechnics” to make the bridge leading to Hogwarts go “Boom!” to keep Voldemort from reaching Hogwarts, and in doing so, provided a real-world application to the learning previously done in class. Time and again, Professor McGonagall showed that teachers are rather good at magic, and that this magic can be shared with students by guiding them through the learning process and recognizing their strengths.

Grades can cause a great deal of stress for both teachers and students, and this hack helps to alleviate much of it by making the grading process more transparent for everyone involved. When students play an active role in the assessment system, they better understand what they learned and why they learned it, so they can apply their learning to real life. Simply put, they begin to focus on the learning rather than solely looking at the score at the top of the paper.