Many of today’s classroom management issues may be a result of the students not connecting with their teachers. Attending various events and activities at your school is a great way to strengthen these student/teacher relationships. If your students know that you care about them *outside* of the classroom, they will be more willing to show you that they care about their work *inside* the classroom.

Gary Gaines, the head football coach featured in the movie *Friday Night Lights*, understood the importance of making these connections with his players. He knew that in order to get the most out of his players on the field, he first needed to understand who they were off the field. Day in and day out, Coach Gaines’s players saw him sharing his time with them, and in return, they gave him their best effort. And while he understood the importance of winning, he focused even more on relationships. “Being perfect is not about that scoreboard out there. It’s not about winning. It’s about you and your relationship with yourself, your family, and your friends. Being perfect is about being able to look your friends in the eye and know that you didn’t let them down because you told them the truth. And that truth is you did everything you could. There wasn’t one more thing you could’ve done,” he said to his players.

Imagine showing that kind of allegiance to your students! Supporting your students at their events is a meaningful and effective way to show them that you care. And while it will take more of your time and energy to make this happen, it’s important to remember that we ask a great deal from our students each day in our classes, and we should be willing to give a little back in return. Simply put, being a movie teacher requires more than just teaching your class. It means giving “everything you can” to your students.

()