minutes and a handful of clarifications, it’s time to get back on track with the current unit. Sound familiar?

The world we live in has undergone quite a drastic change in the last fifty years (I still remember how excited I was when we finally got a VCR!), but for whatever reason, how we grade and assess student work hasn’t really been updated very much in that time. In fact, I don’t think it would be a stretch to say that the way many teachers grade and assess assignments today is probably fairly similar to how *their* teachers graded and assessed their work when they were in school. And to me, that’s messed up.

### THE HACK: REASSESS HOW YOU ASSESS

That’s why this hack centers on the importance of letting your students take some ownership in their assessments. The concept of classroom management extends far beyond reactive measures intended to calm down a situation. In fact, the best classroom management strategies focus on ideas that cut off those situations before they arise, and letting your students have a voice in the grading process can help accomplish this. If students have a clear understanding of how the assessment process works, or even better, have a *role* in that process, the likelihood of them causing a disruption as a result of a misunderstanding is cut dramatically.

Disruptions are often caused by unclear explanations (the assignment, the rules, the grade), and this hack will help provide students with transparency regarding how the grading process works. In addition, this hack allows students to reflect and engage in their learning rather than passively standing by waiting for you to assess the outcome *of* their learning. Students often feel intimidated by concepts they don’t understand, and as a result, they act out as a way to deflect attention away from their academic shortcomings. But