**classrooms hold much more merit than research conducted on a select group of students.** When I started thinking about writing this book, my goal was to create a resource that would be useful to *all* teachers. Again, there are plenty of methodology books out there targeted to a particular grade level or subject matter, but to me, great teaching is great teaching. Because of this, I wanted to create something that provided a series of ready-to-go classroom management strategies that teachers could use regardless of grade level, subject taught, or school environment.

Even still, these hacks can serve as a starting point, and they may require a little tweaking for these concepts to fit with your particular audience. There is no one-size-fits-all system in education. By putting your own spin on these hacks, you will ultimately determine their success. That said, after having tested each of these classroom management ideas in an actual classroom with real students over multiple school years, I am confident that they will be just as effective for you as they have been for me.

**Teachers are willing to go above and beyond for the sake of their students, schools, and communities.** Obtaining resources is becoming more and more of a challenge with each passing year, and it’s not uncommon for teachers to spend their own money in order for their students to have basic classroom supplies. Because of this, I wanted to make sure these hacks could be incorporated with very little (if any) added expense. And again, certain elements discussed within these pages naturally come with expenses (standing desks, field trips, guest speakers), but generally speaking, all it takes to implement most of these ideas is a little planning and the willingness to try.

To be a great teacher—and I’m talking about the type of teacher they make movies about—requires more than simply showing up