same three kids answer all the questions, so they use cold calling as a way to get more students involved. Again, if you have established a learning-friendly atmosphere where students are challenged to share their thoughts, all you have to do is say, “I appreciate these hands that are up, but I want to see some new hands up in the air.” That simple piece of encouragement is usually enough to get a second wave of students involved in the conversation. These are the students who are generally already engaged in the class, but just need a little prompting to share. This gives them the autonomy to participate versus being forced into participating, and autonomy will lead to greater responsibility.

Finally, if you ask a question and get no volunteers, here are two more ideas. First, let students do a turn-n-talk (see Hack 4) to discuss their ideas with classmates. Giving them a minute or two to digest the question usually is enough to get students to engage. If that doesn’t work, then maybe you didn’t ask a very good question! It happens, but at the same time, it’s not fair to blame your students for not answering a question that they might not understand. Try rephrasing the question.

**THE HACK IN ACTION**

When middle school Chinese teacher Tyler Tanner initially started teaching, he shared a set of eleven rules that students should follow. He says, “It was a running joke in my class that these were the Eleven Commandments.” But as he gained experience, Tanner soon realized that he was going overboard regarding what his students could and couldn’t do. “Today, my rules are simple: Be cool to each other and always give your best effort.” And rather than explaining to his class what “being cool” means, Tanner instead allows his students to share their thoughts on what that does or does not look