I maintain that one of the biggest contributing factors to student misconduct is boredom. Think about it. How often do you have students messing around when they are in the middle of doing something they enjoy? My guess is not very often. And that is why I argue that maintaining an appropriate level of fun in class plays a crucial role in creating a positive environment and improves the learning. Better behavior and improved learning as a result of having fun? Maybe the “F” word does have a place in your class.

## THE HACK: CELEBRATIONS AND GAMES AND FIELD TRIPS, OH MY!

Do me a favor and take a minute (literally) to think about your favorite teachers and your favorite memories about them and their classes. This can be any teacher between kindergarten and high school graduation. Ready? Go!

If you are like me, the teachers and memories you just thought about are based more around fun and engagement than they are around content. See, no matter how much we try to fool ourselves, I doubt many of you thought, “Oh, I just loved the way Ms. Johnson talked about symbolism,” or “Man, the way Mr. Charles explained the Pythagorean Theorem really got to me.” (And just for the record, if you did think about those types of memories, you probably shouldn’t admit it.)

> Classroom management is about a lot more than implementing rules; it’s about understanding your students.

For me, I remember celebrating our basketball championship with an ice cream party in Ms. Ibsen’s fifth-grade classroom. I think about playing a football-themed review game in Ms. Freeman’s eighth-