everyone closer, so you’ll want to make sure that as many people as possible are invested in what you’re discussing. Also, make sure you include as many students as you can during the cool-down portion. And while you will probably have a few students who deserve a shout-out every day, don’t overlook others. As a general rule, I try to make sure that each student in the class gets at least one shout-out every couple weeks. And yes, this is challenging, especially for that kid. That’s why you’ll want to recognize those positive moments when they happen.

**Step 5: Always begin and end class on a positive note.**

This is often the most challenging part of this hack, but it’s important! No teaching up to the bell or yelling what the homework is as the class walks out the door! Your content gets the vast majority of your class time, so give this hack the time it needs to flourish. Even if it’s as simple as saying “thank you” or “good job today,” don’t let the last words out of your mouth be about content.

## OVERCOMING PUSHBACK

Time is a valuable commodity in schools, and asking teachers to give up four minutes every class period may raise some eyebrows. Here are some potential issues and how to deal with them.

**I can’t afford to give up class time for this.** Yes, this is going to eat up four (maybe even five or six) minutes of your teaching time, but from my experience, easing your students in and out of class means they will work harder during the “teaching” portion. Meeting them at the door and starting class in a relaxing manner will jump-start them into performing at their highest levels.

**This sounds like a lot of extra prep.** While there is a little extra prep involved (such as finding the tip-of-the-week videos), most of the ideas in this hack can just happen organically based on what the