the desks. Take the opportunity to discuss a fair plan with your students.

**OVERCOMING PUSHBACK**

Incorporating controlled movement into your class may be a scary concept, especially when it’s often the uncontrolled movements that cause so many classroom management issues. Here are some common concerns related to implementing this hack.

**This won’t work with my class. If I let them get up they’ll get out of control.** While every class is different, the vast majority would benefit from incorporating more movement into the daily routine, especially with clear instructions and boundaries. The key is that these controlled movement sessions are well planned and structured. Besides the specific learning targets you are trying to reach, you should also include time limits to each activity. Simply put, cutting a discussion fifteen seconds short is more beneficial for class management than having it run fifteen seconds over. If you’re a teacher, you know what I’m talking about! It’s almost scary to see how much havoc a bored student can unleash in fifteen seconds!

**But won’t some of these activities be loud?** In a word—yes. But here’s the thing: Learning isn’t supposed to be a spectator sport, and when students are actively involved in what is happening, there’s bound to be some noise! But it’s productive noise. I even argue that the most engaging classes are generally the loudest ones. In fact, it’s the quiet rooms, where you only hear the teacher talking, that freak me out! Besides, are you really going to get mad at a student who is talking too loudly about the topic at hand? I would hope not!

**My school doesn’t have the budget for standing desks.** Teachers often think their schools don’t have any money for optional items like this, but they never follow through to find out for sure.