# WHAT **YOU** CAN DO TOMORROW

Personalized learning is a term that strikes fear in the hearts of many teachers. And I don’t blame them. With so many different types of learners and abilities in a class, it can feel overwhelming to think about trying to connect with each of them individually. But that’s what movie teachers do! Here are a few ideas to help get you started.

- **DO A PRE-ASSESSMENT.** When I first began teaching, I assumed I knew my students’ level regarding the topic at hand, and I started each unit at that level. And while I usually did a decent job in my estimation, there were always a few students who were either already ahead of where I began or who were way behind the starting point. Pre-assessments allow students to show you what, if any, prior knowledge they are bringing to the table. This will give you an opportunity to personalize the lessons as a way to fully engage all of your students.

- Two of the primary causes of classroom misbehavior are boredom (when students already know the information presented) and lack of understanding (when the information is way too complicated), and doing a pre-assessment helps to decrease the chances of both of these from happening. Three of my favorite pre-assessment strategies are asking my students to give real-world examples of key words related to the topic, having them complete a KWL (Know, Wonder, Learned), and rating their initial understanding (on a scale of 1-5) from a list of unit-related topics.

- **INVESTIGATE ALTERNATIVE WAYS TO PRESENT THE INFORMATION.** While I know it is more comfortable to stick with the same old methods that you’ve used for years, the purpose of this hack is to inspire you to update a few of those methods. Making the learning more personalized doesn’t mean