the discussion portion comes into play. This type of Q and A keeps the class engaged in the learning and allows them to ask clarifying questions. The result is that students not only understand why an answer is right, they also discover why an answer is wrong (which, if you think about it, is just as important). This is a concept that is overlooked when the typical teacher-graded test is handed back. Plus, this system allows for students to explain their thought process to me in a way that a circled letter on a multiple-choice test just can’t do. Finally, you can add an extra layer to the learning by asking follow-up questions.

**Peer review to self-assessment.**

In the peer review to self-assessment model, students create a self-assessment based in part on the comments created by their peers. These types of assessments work best on projects or written work, and they are a great way for students to get an array of opinions on their work prior to judging it themselves. The process looks like this:

Direct every student to take out a piece of paper and create a T-chart across the top. Label the two sections with a plus (+) and a minus (-). Students will leave this paper, along with a pen, next to the assignment at their desk.

1. After discussing the required elements of the assignment, students walk around the room and assess two of their classmates’ projects based on the stated criteria. As they assess the work, they are to write two positive comments (in the + column) and two suggestions for improvement (in the - column) on the T-chart next to the assignment.
2. Once they have completed one assessment, they stand up and wait for a seat to open, where they repeat the process.