you hear their thoughts about the ideas presented in class. You might even let them present on topics of their choice every now and then. But in the big picture, it can be a challenge to see your students as more than just students. Yet getting to know your students—and I mean know the persons, not just the students—will build trust that will help you to manage an effective classroom environment. Time is such a valuable commodity, and any disruption in classroom management can completely derail your best-laid plans. And often, these disruptions are the result of a single student.

Have you ever wondered why those movie teachers never seem to struggle with classroom management? There may be an initial problem that starts the movie, but by the time the movie is halfway over, the problem seems to disappear. So how do they do it?

## THE HACK: TAKE IN A GAME, A PLAY, OR A CONCERT

They do it, in part, by participating in school-related events that take place outside of their classes. Movie teachers coach. They direct the play. They lead the band or choir. In fact, every good movie teacher that I can think of led or engaged in some kind of extracurricular activity with the students.

The benefit of doing this, of course, is that you get to know your students on a completely different level, and you will often discover a new side to them. This better understanding of your students can then be translated into the in-class relationship. Any bonds you form talking about sports or acting outside of class will bleed into the classroom. Additionally, when your students see that you’re willing to put in the extra time to support them in activities they enjoy, they will become more willing to return the favor during class.