students to *learn* the skills? From my experience, getting them to learn is much easier if they are engaged with the way the skill is being presented, and social media does just that.

## THE HACK IN ACTION

Carrie Barney, a fourth-grade teacher, knew a bit about Twitter and how it worked when she decided to utilize the Twitter summary with her class. The first time they tried it, they were discussing an article they’d read earlier in the week. And then something beautiful happened: The Twitter-savvy students filled in the gaps for their peers by explaining what they knew about Tweets. This gave her class the buy-in that was needed to try something new, and as this was happening, anticipation to try it started to build. “When I let them know that they could use emojis, well, that was it!” she said. A few minutes later, after setting up the guidelines, expectations, and modeling the assignment, she set them loose.

“All of my students were writing. Every. Single. One. Total engagement!” she explains. “That right there is the dream. The dream!” And this success has continued in Mrs. Barney’s room ever since. She says she’s tried the Twitter summary across various subjects and has seen the same level of engagement. Additionally, she noticed that the more they worked on their Tweets, the less she had to manage the behavior of the class.

In watching this unfold, the positive impact that social media can have on a classroom environment became clear to her, and she was excited to share her new success story with her peers. “At our school’s next faculty meeting, when it was time for sharing celebrations, I had to share mine. The following week, next thing I know, I was being pulled into my colleagues’ classes and shown *their* Twitter walls.” From her experience, using social media as a way to