Schools and districts generally have a furniture budget every year to replace needed items like desks and chairs. If this is part of the plan, taking the extra steps to research the cost of standing desks could be extremely beneficial. Rather than spending a certain amount on the same replacement desks and chairs, see if that money could instead be spent on new standing desks for your classroom. And while it’s true that some standing desks are rather pricey, there are basic models that can have the same positive benefits (without all the flash) at a price that is competitive to a traditional desk and chair.

Also keep in mind that you don’t need to do a complete overhaul and change out all of the traditional desks at once. I started out with only four standing desks that first year. I quickly discovered that students *loved* using them, and before every period, they would race into my class to get one of them. Because of that initial success, I added another six the following year. And ten more the year after that. My new classroom goal is to be completely sitting-desk-free (but with a few stashed in the corner for emergencies) within the next two years.

Finally, if there truly isn’t any money in the budget for this, there are still ways to make this happen. Cities and states often have grants for teachers, and crowdfunding sites like donorschoose.org and gofundme.com can serve as valuable resources in your quest for cash. And while all of these will require effort on your part, the benefits are definitely worth it.

**THE HACK IN ACTION**

Campbell Ainsworth, a middle school Spanish teacher, is a big believer in using movement as a way to limit classroom management issues. “Working as a language teacher and with middle school students, incorporating movement into the daily routine is important.