strategies would fit perfectly with your learning community. Unfortunately, I have yet to see a perfect school. Find what works for both you and your class, and build from there.

# OVERCOMING PUSHBACK

Classroom management 2.0 is probably a bit different than what you’ve always done. But that’s the point! If you still need convincing, however, here are a few responses for the naysayers:

## I already have a system that works.

Look, I get it. You have a system in place that works perfectly fine for you and your students. But what if trying some of these ideas resulted in a better system? Don’t you think it would be worth a try? For example, when a student tells you that he has a “method” for something that you are doing in class, are you content to let him use his usual method, or do you encourage him to try what you know has worked with other students to see if it can improve his results? The way I see it, you will never know which style works best until you try a few and have a basis for comparison. Besides, what do you really have to lose by trying these out for a week or two?

## What about the students who abuse the bathroom privilege?

This one is easy: What do you currently do about students who abuse the bathroom privilege? Do that! In my class, we discuss the bathroom policy at the beginning of the year, and we establish a general idea for what seems like an appropriate number of times to leave class for the bathroom and water breaks per trimester. History has shown that most students can easily limit this to two times or less per trimester. But, like most rules, there are always students out there who want to see how much they can get away with, so they push that recommended limit.

When that happens, I let the students know that I have noticed