while this idea might make some teachers uncomfortable, I encourage you to look at these issues in a positive light. After all, if a student is willing to share with you that a family member died or that they got grounded for the weekend, it shows that they have a trust in you that goes beyond the standard teacher role.

**Tuesday: Tip of the Week.** For this warmup, I provide my class with an important life lesson. This is a great opportunity to teach the “hidden” curriculum by touching on topics like perseverance, friendship, and creativity. I write it on the “Tip of the Week Board,” and it remains there for the entire week. I then try to point out examples throughout the week when students have put the tip into action. Additionally, I always include a video element to showcase or support the tip. YouTube is a great source for these (see Hack 5), and it also provides you with links to similar videos.

I often share the topic of the upcoming Tip of the Week (but not the suggestion itself), and I let students know that I am open to any videos they might suggest that reflect this idea. This, again, gives them some ownership in the process, and thus helps to build a solid foundation for a positive classroom atmosphere. The last step of the Tip of the Week is to have students explain to a partner how the video or they themselves relate to the tip. This is my favorite part of this activity, and let me tell you, be ready to hear some seriously strong insights! (See Act 9: Tip of the Week—Sample Ideas and Videos.)