and doing your job. I’m sure you can think of plenty of decent teachers at your school who know their content and teach their students day in and day out. But those who take their teaching to the next level flip this approach. Movie-worthy teachers know their students and teach their content. In doing so, they realize the positive impact of making personal connections with their students. And it is this connection, combined with simple management strategies, which leads to an effectively managed classroom. Classroom management isn’t about knowing what to do after things fall apart, but rather it is about managing the classroom environment in a way that prevents things from melting down.

Simply put, no matter how well you know your content, your class won’t reach its full potential until you develop an engaging approach to classroom management, and these hacks will help you do just that. This book offers resources to implement into your current curriculum, processes proven to work in actual classrooms, and simple ideas to help you become even more of a star teacher than you already are, as you go above and beyond for your students!

Hack Learning loyalists will recognize the structure of the book, including The Problem, The Hack, What You Can Do Tomorrow, A Blueprint for Full Implementation, Overcoming Pushback, and The Hack in Action. As an added bonus, each Hack (chapter) includes a helpful visual called “Behind the Scenes.” This feature shows you examples, pictures, or prompts to help you fully understand what the hack looks and feels like. I invite you to borrow these ideas outright or use them as springboards to inspire your own adaptations. Each chapter concludes with a final boost of motivation by describing a movie teacher who exemplifies that particular hack.

()