like. “If the students do something they shouldn’t, all I have to say is, ‘Are you being cool to each other?’ If they aren’t, they will typically stop, and oftentimes even apologize for their behavior.”

In addition to limiting his rules, Tanner has implemented many procedural elements that provide students with increased autonomy. “In my class, I don’t believe in using a seating chart. Where students sit doesn’t matter to me as long as they are being respectful and productive. Plus, allowing students the freedom to sit where they want makes them *want* to behave so that the seats aren’t assigned.” Additionally, he has also stopped the cold-calling approach. In conjunction with the “Always give your best effort” rule, he discovered that students like to be part of the class, and if they are prepared and giving their best effort, this eliminates the need to cold call on students.

“I have found that if you treat the students as you would want to be treated, there are a lot less behavioral issues. If you set the bar high and treat them accordingly, you will be surprised how many of them are willing to meet you at that level.”

In the movie [Lean on Me](Lean on Me), Principal Joe Clark knew he had to help his school rise above its gang and narcotics problems before he could focus on improving state exam scores. He did this by showing students that he, along with the entire school community, was invested in their success.

Just before the state exams, he announced to a room full of students, “We sink, we swim, we rise, we fall, we meet our fate together!” He established a system where everyone became a