- Want your students to manage their time? Have a structured lesson prepared for each class.

## Step 5: Provide reminders and examples.

Early in my career, I would go over expectations during the first few days of class, and I would assume that was enough to cover it for the remainder of the year. Well, needless to say, I was wrong. To get students to commit to the high expectations, provide them with reminders and examples of what those expectations look like and how they can accomplish them. Identify when students are doing well, and don’t be afraid to let them know when they aren’t carrying their weight.

## Step 6: Show your students that you trust them.

Regardless of how often you tell your students that you trust them, find opportunities to show that you trust them. Letting them take a test at home or simply asking them if they completed an assignment (rather than having them show you or turn it in) are two simple ways to build a relationship of trust. Once your students know that they have earned your trust, they will do everything possible to maintain it.

## Step 7: Get feedback from your students.

While it seems obvious, many teachers overlook getting student feedback on these issues. Find out what is working, and build on that. And if it isn’t working very well, find out why, and adjust it so everything is clear and understandable for your students. Communication is a key element of this hack, and receiving and providing constant feedback is an essential ingredient to its success. (See Act 2: Teacher Evaluation.)