And while trying to personalize learning for every student may sound daunting, it can be accomplished with only a few minor tweaks to what many teachers currently do.

There are numerous ways to improve student learning and engagement, and some may require you to adjust the standards based on your class and community. But whether it’s through how you teach, the way you group students, or your assessments, here are some strategies to help you personalize the learning.

**Vary your teaching method.** To truly personalize learning, make an effort to reach every student by varying how you present information. While the lecture format mentioned earlier might be effective for some students (thus showing that it still deserves a place in class), I feel confident in saying that it isn’t the best approach for *all* students. To help with this, try using a wide range of instructional strategies throughout the day.

Simple yet effective alternatives to lecturing include showing relevant and engaging video clips to supplement a discussion, listening to a podcast to reinforce a concept, or playing a review game to summarize the main ideas from a unit. And remember, this should happen on a daily basis, not just when it’s convenient for you. Simply put: To personalize learning, adjust your teaching to fit your students’ learning styles rather than having them adjust to your teaching style.

**Let students self-select their groups.** While you should still establish the parameters of the groups (i.e., no more than four per group), give your students the opportunity to figure out who they work best with. To mix things up, request that they not repeat partners from one project to the next, which makes them branch out from their friends. This includes the option of letting students work by themselves if they so choose. Your students know themselves pretty well, and sometimes they may need a little break from their friends. One of the biggest causes of classroom disruptions stems from students being frustrated by what is happening in class, and working in groups can often trigger this frustration. If you can