many of you know, things rarely work out perfectly, and little by little, those high expectations begin to crack. One student forgets to turn in a homework assignment. Another is constantly showing up late. A third gets caught cheating. And that one kid—yeah, he’s driving you crazy! But rather than addressing these issues as they arise and re-establishing that behaviors like these aren’t acceptable, it just becomes easier for both you and the students to let the high expectations slide. Once that happens, lowering the bar becomes the new norm.

The key ingredient to making this hack a success is to bring the excitement and optimism that you display on the first day to every class you teach. And on those occasions when students don’t live up to expectations, hold them accountable for their actions. Classroom management and high expectations go hand-in-hand, and when one falters, the other is soon to follow. From my experience, students feed off the energy and attitude of the teacher, and you’ll want to consistently demand the best from your students. If they see you “bring it” every day, and you are clear about your expectation for them to do the same, you will be amazed at the high standards they can attain. And before too long, those high expectations become the new norm.

## WHAT YOU CAN DO TOMORROW

While it is obviously best to set clear expectations at the beginning of each school year, there are valuable steps that can be implemented at any point. Each of the following strategies is a simple and effective method that can be immediately added to help you establish high expectations.