“Kids no longer are completing tasks to please me, but instead are doing it to please themselves. The ownership of giving yourself the grade is quite motivating. And, as a result of our learning targets, it is very clear what they are working toward. With the old system, ‘Pleasing Ms. Katie’ was pretty ambiguous!” She also noticed an improvement in engagement and classroom management, and says that her kids are much more engaged now because they understand the purpose behind each and every thing they do. This better understanding of the learning process has resulted in a classroom that runs much smoother than before. She does note, however, that setting up this atmosphere takes time and patience.

Schwab took the ideas of this hack even further during parent/teacher conferences, and offered student-led conferences. “The kids were able to show their parents an assignment against a learning target and clearly state where they were doing well and what they still needed to work on.” Schwab is excited to seek out new ways for her students to grow as learners. “I love how assessments like these allow students to embrace challenges and become more comfortable with making mistakes and learning from them. It’s like magic!”

So let me ask you this: When was the last time you lugged home a bunch of papers and had it feel like magic? If it’s been awhile (if ever), then it might be time to shake up your grading system.

Minerva McGonagall, the transfiguration professor at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, knows a thing or two about creating magic in the classroom. Throughout the Harry Potter series,