students know that you see them as more than just students. These two minutes that I spend talking with them person-to-person rather than teacher-to-student shows that I care about them beyond the content of my class. As a result of this deepened relationship, students are generally more willing to put forth their best effort (both academically and behaviorally) when that time comes. And here’s the cool part: Those two minutes will more than pay for themselves over the course of each class. From my perspective, connecting with your students for two minutes early in the period in exchange for a better effort over the remainder of your class seems well worth the price.

As class winds down, I like to spend the last two minutes doing a cool-down where I recognize students who performed exceptionally well that day. (Please note that I do this after wrapping up the daily lesson and addressing any questions and/or homework concerns. I always try to make sure the first and last words out of my mouth are about them as people, not as students.) This usually involves me giving three shout-outs (along with a high five for each one) to students who participated in a manner that went above expectation. I may recognize when a student makes an insightful comment, helps another student, or simply says something that made me laugh.

After my three shout-outs, I open it up to the class to recognize up to three additional outstanding thoughts or actions they witnessed from their peers. Now before you say it, yes, the student shout-outs can be pretty hit-and-miss, depending on the class. That said, while the reasoning behind their shout-outs isn’t always the most profound, the gesture itself further enhances an environment that is encouraging and supportive. And much like the learning done in class, the more they engage in this activity, the better they become at it.