students do, the frequency with which you break students into groups, how often you provide your students with opportunities to learn via outside sources (pictures, music, videos), and the ways you formatively assess student learning. Finally, if by chance you are hesitant to record yourself, asking a colleague to observe and discuss what your teaching looks like from their perspective also serves this purpose well.

**Step 2: Look for places to personalize learning.**

Once you have created a list of your teaching methods, focus your attention on trying to personalize those methods for your students. Instead of requiring notes from every student, give them the option of summarizing the lecture in a paragraph or a picture. Or, instead of only providing one example about a topic, you could open it up to your students and see what kinds of connections they can build around the topic. Think about what is causing the method you’re using to be ineffective. Then brainstorm ideas around how you might improve things by adding more student choice to the learning process.

**Step 3: Add variety and choice.**

Look for ways to vary how you present information, as well as letting students self-select assignments of interest. And don’t forget that open-ended assignments (completely selected by the student) serve as a great way to let them drive their learning!

**Step 4: Consistently reflect on the process.**

As the unit progresses, take time to reflect on what is or is not working. This can be as simple as writing a plus (+) or a minus (-) next to the lesson or method in your planner. Also, allow students to share their thoughts on the situation. Remember, while it might not be the most comfortable method for you, if it works for your students, you’ll want to take that into serious consideration.

**OVERCOMING PUSHBACK**