them leaving fairly often, and I will ask if there are any issues that I need to be made aware of. (There may be times when students have extenuating situations that require them to leave class more frequently. These situations should be treated individually, and are often included in students’ accommodation plans.) In most cases, simply letting students know that you are aware is enough to end the problem. But just in case, I remind them to use the passing time to visit the bathroom when possible, rather than class time. In essence, all this new method is doing is cutting out the public announcement piece. Whatever rules you’ve previously established about using the bathroom are still in play.

**My students will mess around without a seating chart.** This is a common concern, but I bet if you really think about it, you will realize that most of us use a seating chart primarily to keep one or two students in check. If that’s the case, is it really fair to punish the entire class based on the actions of a couple students? And again, if students are aware of the consequences that come with misbehaving (losing the privilege of free seating), that alone will keep many of them from taking advantage of the situation. Besides, if it totally blows up (which I doubt will happen), you can always break out the seating chart later.

**But if I don’t cold call on students, they won’t participate.** This is the standard argument I hear from teachers when I propose the no-cold-calling method. If this is truly the case, you may need to reassess your relationship with your students. If the relationship is built on trust and respect, your students should be willing to share their ideas, even when possibly wrong. Plus, if you have established and modeled risk-taking as part of your class, your students will take more chances on speaking up.

The other argument I often hear is when a teacher says that the