Change is hard, and I fully understand why you might have concerns about incorporating this hack into your classroom. To help ease this fear, here are some thoughts on common concerns regarding personalized learning.

**What about the students who don’t have friends to join during group projects?**

This is always a tough one, and even after all these years, it still makes me sad. To help with this, before we break into groups, I remind my students that this project will last a few days, and it’s not a marriage that will (hopefully) last forever. I encourage them to invite some people into their group who they haven’t worked with previously. You will generally have a student or two who understands the deeper meaning behind your words, and who will make sure that everyone who wants a group gets a group. At the same time, sometimes students simply prefer to work alone. This hack is about personalizing the learning, and if that is what works best for that student, you will want to respect that as well.

**There is no way I can personalize the learning for every student.**

Actually, you can. But it means giving up some of the control over the class. See, the key element to personalized learning is providing students with options, and often, this means allowing them the chance to create an assignment that best fits their needs. It’s not as scary as it sounds. You can still set the learning target and parameters of the assignment, but you must be willing to let your students find their own ways of reaching that target.

**Students won’t get anything done if they work with their friends.**

This is a fairly common concern with this hack. After all, we are talking about kids here, right? But think about this: Do you work harder for your friends or for people you don’t know? My guess is your friends, and the same holds true for your students. Letting your students self-select their partners won’t weaken the groups, it will solidify them. Give it a try.

**This sounds like more work for me.**

You got me on this one. Yes, it will require more work, initially, from you. But once you line up an array