hang up Instagram pictures on my classroom walls. Students will work hard to impress their peers with these!

## Step 5: Keep looking for new social media connections.

As previously mentioned, social media is constantly changing. That means if you keep up to date, more and more of these opportunities will become available each year. Plus, if you ask, I am sure your students will be more than willing to share their thoughts on how to incorporate channels like Snapchat into their learning.

# OVERCOMING PUSHBACK

The use of social media in schools is a pretty divisive issue. Here are some common concerns that may arise when implementing this hack.

## My school blocks social media.

The Twitter and Instagram examples presented here are only based on social media, and do not actually require using social media. If you are able to use the full platform within your school, do it! But if not, written examples are just as effective. As for the YouTube videos, you can download and save those at home, then play the files when at school.

## I’m not comfortable using social media.

That’s OK. You can still implement the pen-and-paper versions of these activities, and your students will still be engaged because they are super comfortable using social media concepts. That’s one of the best parts about this. If you have any questions about how it works, you have a room full of experts ready to help. Letting your students teach you shows that you are a learner just like them, and this will further strengthen your relationships with your students.

## I don’t need to use social media to teach the skills I want students to learn.

You are probably right on this one. But let me ask you this: Are you looking to teach the skills, or do you want your