categorize your class, would they say it’s a movie or a video game?

# THE HACK: LET’S GET PERSONAL

Take a second and think about your favorite book, movie, and song. Now spend another few seconds thinking about what you love about that particular book, movie, and song.

If you’re like me, you connect with your favorites because of some personal reason. In *To Kill a Mockingbird*, I relate with Atticus Finch and his belief that people should stay true to their values regardless of the situation. In *Good Will Hunting*, it’s the unbreakable loyalty that the characters played by Matt Damon and Ben Affleck have toward one another that really impacts me. And as far as *A Boy Named Sue* goes, it’s the simple rhythm and narrative of the song that makes me love it so much.

Now think about this: What if I took away your favorites and told you that you could only enjoy my favorites because I think mine are better? I’m betting that a few of you would love my choices and would be perfectly fine with that. I am also guessing that some of you would be indifferent to my selections. Finally, it’s safe to say that a bunch of you would just plain hate my picks, and as a result, would dread every time you had to read, watch, or listen to one of my selections.

Here’s how this all relates to this hack: Teachers often teach the way that is best for them (my favorites) rather than focusing on the methods that are best for the individual student (your favorites). To truly become a movie-type teacher, it’s important to realize that a teacher’s job is not to present information to the class, but rather to make sure that the students *learn* what is being taught. Providing students with a more personalized approach does this.

This hack centers on creating more personalized learning opportunities for your students. Doing so will positively impact the learning atmosphere of your class by allowing students to work in ways that best fit their skill levels, but also the learning styles that work well for them.