> If your students know that you care about them outside of the classroom, they will be more willing to show you that they care about their work inside the classroom.

By modeling what it means to be supportive, you set the standard for the behavior you expect from everyone, yourself included. A new level of respect is established that is difficult to reach within the walls of your classroom. Students look at your class as a place where everyone, teachers and students, has to be. Extracurricular events are different in that they are places where people choose to be. And every time you decide to show up to one of these events, it will strengthen your relationship with all the students involved.

When you really strip it down to the basic elements, this hack is pretty simple to understand: Supporting your students by attending extracurricular events is an easy and effective way to offset many of the issues that arise in class. It simply shows your students that you care about them beyond your subject area, and that you are willing to give up some of your own time to support them in the activities they enjoy doing. And just so we are clear, while it’s ridiculous to attend all of the events, it’s just as silly to say that you can’t attend any of the events. Model for your students what it means to be supportive outside the classroom, and they will pay it back within.

## WHAT YOU CAN DO TOMORROW

As easy as this sounds, it still requires effort and pre-planning on your part. To help get things rolling, here are a few simple ideas that