blended the curriculum with a perfect combination of fun and mini-celebrations, and it’s that combination that led me to be successful that class,” Young says.

She adds that the value that comes from these experiences runs much deeper than simply gaining a better understanding of the content. “During these activities and celebrations, I connect with students I might not normally speak with, which increases my confidence about participating in discussions or presenting because I feel as though I am amongst a large group of friends.”

Mrs. Rowberry knew how to use the “F” word in her class, and Sydney sees its benefit from the student perspective as well. Are you willing to add the “F” word to your class?

In *School of Rock*, Dewey Finn took this concept of creating fun in the classroom to heart during his stint as a substitute teacher. Whether he was taking his class on a field trip to the Battle of the Bands, incorporating a new activity by teaching the “Math is a Wonderful Thing” song, or modeling his passion for music by playing alongside his class, Mr. S. (as he is called in the movie) made sure to sprinkle a touch of fun into every aspect of class.

The success of his method is best illustrated halfway through the movie when his student Freddy asks, “Are we gonna be goofing off every day?” While the knee-jerk reaction might be negative, the hidden beauty of this statement is that while Freddy interpreted what they had been doing as messing around, it actually was an effective teaching strategy that mixed collaboration, self-direction, and fun amongst the learning outcomes. And as evidenced by the class