we do for a living, that, “I am a teacher.” But then, usually within the first few months of having our own classrooms, reality kicked in. Overcrowded classrooms, grade-obsessed parents, and overbearing administrators all started to cloud our dreams. Add to this a lack of funding, constant grading, and unmotivated students (among numerous other things), and, well, you get the idea.

But what if I were to tell you that there is a way, even with those obstacles staring you down, that you could still become one of those movie-type teachers? And what if I said that all this could be accomplished courtesy of a few easy-to-implement classroom management hacks? Even better, what if these concepts were modeled for you through both real-world scenarios and via some of the best teachers from the past thirty years of cinema? Would you be interested?

## BUT I'VE ALREADY TAKEN A CLASSROOM MANAGEMENT CLASS

Now before I go on, let’s clarify exactly what this book is and isn’t about. First, while this is a classroom management book, it’s not going to be very useful if you are looking for reactive strategies to help solve your behavioral problems after they have already happened. If that fire is already ablaze within your class, you’re probably not going to find your extinguisher within these pages.

Instead, the hacks presented here tend to be more proactive. In my experience, the best way to manage the classroom environment is to create a learning atmosphere where students know that they are appreciated, where they are actively engaged in the learning, and where they can have (prepare to gasp!) fun in the process. Simply put, my goal is to provide you with ten quick and easy management