through college, has also experienced these benefits firsthand. He is fully aware of how establishing positive relationships in one area (in his case, coaching soccer) can easily blend into another (the classroom). Coach Kennedy explains, “Because much of what we do as educators revolves around facilitating meaningful connections, I spend a considerable amount of time formally and informally nurturing any opportunity to connect with my students.”

In addition to dedicating his time to coaching soccer, Coach Kennedy is also a frequent spectator at various other school events. “When you connect with a student in a way that is not directly linked to the subject or content area you teach, it makes it easier for you as the teacher to have high expectations of that student in the classroom setting. When you see what they are capable of in other areas of their lives, it makes you understand just what they are capable of within your class. Plus, the students are much more willing to accept those expectations as a result of the support you’ve shown them.”

Coach Kennedy also understands that in order to get the most from his students, he has to first invest in his students. “I have seen this pay off by having students work hard for me on and off the field because of the fact that I recognized them in areas outside of my soccer program. Whether it’s seeing them on stage, in another classroom, or at a different sporting event, I want my students to know that I care about them as people.” He says showing care and respect for students means that he can raise the bar when it comes to expectations.