they are doing, it becomes difficult to maintain control of the room. And this is where social media comes in.

In today’s classrooms, there are so many different learning styles and abilities within a single class that, even with an array of differentiated strategies, it’s challenging to get all the students engaged at the same time. But social media is the great equalizer amongst today’s students, and when teachers use it to their advantage, the class instantly becomes offensive minded (actively learning) rather than defensive minded (disrupting the learning). Getting everyone involved and excited about learning is what separates a movie-type teacher from the rest, and using social media in the classroom is a great way to accomplish this.

## THE HACK: WALK THEIR WALK AND TALK THEIR TALK

Here’s a little secret: If your class is *fully* engaged in what they are doing, classroom management takes care of itself. When these moments happen, it’s like the ultimate movie-teacher moment. Time seems to fly by, all of your students are working to their highest abilities, and just when you’re sure that your students are going to go all *Dead Poets Society* on you and stand on their desks and cry out, “O Captain, My Captain” . . . a student gets bored with what he is doing, so he asks to go to the bathroom. And just like that, reality rears its ugly head. This is where social media comes to the rescue. Assignments geared around social media will keep your students engaged, and there may actually be times when you have to ask them to *stop* working on their assignments. That’s how into these assignments they will get!