If you want to do something beyond this, create a “Birthday Wall” where students have the option of bringing in a baby picture and hanging it up on the wall. And while I have them post their pictures and dates of birth on the wall, I don’t have them write their names on these. Whenever a birthday rolls around, we try to guess whose big day it is. After figuring it out, implement your classroom’s regular birthday privileges. Yes, this one will eat into a minute or two of your teaching time. The connections you make with students are more than worth it.

- **TELL A FUNNY STORY FROM YOUR CHILDHOOD.** Students love hearing stories from when you were their age, so if you can link a childhood story to your lesson, take advantage of it. And even if you can’t relate it to your lesson, use opportunities to share these stories when they arise. For me, I have a Halloween story that makes an appearance every year, and the same holds true after the first snowfall of winter. And while neither of these is necessarily content-related, they do serve as a great change of pace from the status quo.

Another twist on this idea is to model how to do a show-and-tell with your students. You can demonstrate what this looks like by bringing in an item that holds meaning for you and explaining why it’s important. This can then lead to students holding a weekly show-and-tell where three or four students do a one-minute presentation on items that are important to them.

- **HAVE STUDENTS SHARE A FEW JOKES.** As a way to relieve stress prior to a big test, I often allow my students a