looking for more formal data, take a quick poll in class regarding the various options.

- **FAMILIARIZE YOURSELF WITH THE DIFFERENT OUTLETS.** Spend some time getting to know the pros and cons of each social media outlet. Cyberspace changes quickly, and what was once popular (AOL, MySpace) can disappear in an instant. To get the most out of this hack, make sure you are incorporating platforms that your students already use and enjoy.

- **LEARN THE LANGUAGE.** Tweets, hashtags, tagging, emojis, memes, and GIFs are terms that your students know. You will want to brush up on these, and other terms, as a way to talk-the-talk with your students. A quick search of “social media terms” should get you up to speed.

- **WATCH A FUNNY YOUTUBE VIDEO.** While there are probably hundreds of videos out there about the *subject* you are teaching, to connect with your students, start class by showing a funny video that supports the *concept* you are studying. This is sure to grab their attention, and it sets a great tone for the rest of the period.

- **TRY TWEETING.** For the bold who want to dive right in, have your students create a Twitter summary (written or digital) that summarizes the learning that took place in your class. To make it even more engaging, ask them to include at least one hashtag at the end. And if your school allows it and you’re feeling extra adventurous, ask them to tag someone in their tweets.

- **ASSIGN AN INSTAGRAM SUMMARY.** When presenting a concept to your class tomorrow, have students take notes