As crazy as it sounds, this approach has substantially reduced the number of students I catch cheating in my class. And let me be clear here: The grades on the take-home exams usually mirror the scores that students receive on their in-class exams, so it’s not like students are lying to me about cheating. It’s almost as if the trust I place in them outweighs the almighty grade. How’s that for a crazy concept?

**I don’t have fancy clothes to wear to work.** As you know, teaching doesn’t exactly pay a Wall Street CEO salary. That said, many teachers could upgrade their attire without breaking the bank. You don’t need to buy an entirely new wardrobe, but I am suggesting that if you wear jeans and a T-shirt to your class, you may want to class it up and strive for a more professional look.

**It’s impossible to be happy and positive every day.** There’s no debating this one. Sometimes, whether because of illness, lack of energy, or just life in general, you are going to have days when you are just off your game a bit. And that’s when you fake it. We expect our students to be on every day, and we should hold ourselves to that same standard. So put on some nice clothes, throw on a happy smile, and go model for your students what it means to persevere!

At the same time, when those truly serious occasions arise (like a death in the family), it is absolutely acceptable to let your class know that you are having a tough time. And while I don’t recommend dwelling on it, sharing this kind of information can enhance your relationship with your class by creating a bond that just can’t be established otherwise.

**THE HACK IN ACTION**

Eighth-grader Rory Beals says he has experienced classrooms with higher expectations, and those with lower expectations, and reflects on how each impacted his learning and engagement. He says, “I