workday is one thing; altering time away from school is a whole other issue! Here are some thoughts to address concerns that might arise.

**I don’t have two hours a day, after school no less, to go to school events.** I totally hear you. And the good news is, you don’t have to. See, while being a coach or a director requires hours of time —time that many of us can’t spare—most of us can manage being a spectator at those events. The fact is, a little effort on your part will go a long way with your students. To make it even easier, you don’t even have to watch the whole event. While it’s obviously best to stay for the entirety when possible, even making a quick cameo appearance can reap rewards. Simply watching a portion of a game or a play allows you to establish a starting point for a conversation the next day in class. A simple question like, “How did the game end up last night?” or a comment such as, “You did a nice job last night at the play” shows your students that you’re interested in their lives beyond the classroom.

You can even turn these occasions into family outings. Younger kids enjoy going to events where they get to see what the older students are doing, and your students will love seeing your children. It’s a win-win scenario! While it might not seem like much, this will have a *major* impact on the relationship you have with your students. When students know you care about them as people, they will be much more willing to open up and try new things within your class.

**None of the school events interest me.** But I bet your students interest you! That is why you are doing this, after all. Although it does help to be interested in the activity itself, that’s not the primary reasoning behind why you are spending your time to attend. Try to find a connection with a type of event, such as art shows, music performances, drama performances, dances, sports events or games, or student activities in the community.