productively engage her students has resulted in overwhelming success. The scariest part—“Just being brave enough to try it out!”—wasn’t so bad after all.

In *Mr. Holland’s Opus*, music teacher Glenn Holland understood the importance that relevancy can have on the success of a lesson. “Playing music is supposed to be fun. It’s about heart, it’s about feelings,” he said. Unfortunately, his message was being lost as a result of his students not connecting with the classical music that they were studying. So as any great teacher would do, Mr. Holland decided to adapt his teaching methods to better fit the needs of his students by meshing the classical music that he loved with some of the contemporary songs that his students enjoyed. When he did this, his students’ hands were up in the air, they were answering questions, and it looked like fun.

Mr. Holland realized that in order to have music impact his students in a meaningful manner, he needed to make it resonate with them in a way that went beyond simply learning the notes. He wanted them to understand and *feel* what making music was like, and he was better able to accomplish this once he was willing to use all the tools at his disposal, including contemporary music.

Social media is like the contemporary music in this film: It’s a modern tool that engages students in the learning. The best part about this hack is that you can still implement the learning targets into the lesson, but those objectives won’t become the *focus* of the lesson. The learning is still taking place, but it’s just more secretive in how it happens. So rather than constantly fighting against what