# Letting your students teach you shows that you are a learner just like them, and this will further strengthen your relationships with your students.

Because of their popularity, social media outlets like YouTube, Twitter, and Instagram have already set up a formula for success within the classroom. And because your students already understand how they work, all you have to do is be willing to adapt some of your ideas to fit the mold. The coolest part of this hack is that you can successfully implement it in two different ways. If your school allows you and your students to access social media, then you can use channels such as Twitter and Instagram in their direct forms. On the other hand, if your school limits or blocks the use of social media, the ideas presented here can just as easily be implemented using the old-school pen-and-paper method. Here are some examples:

**YouTube.** No matter what you’re teaching, there is a YouTube video that could be used to enhance the learning of that topic. And don’t take the easy route on these. Find a music video or a basketball highlight film to supplement the ideas you are discussing in class. These videos can serve a range of purposes. Whether they are used as writing prompts for a starter activity, shown mid-class to introduce a new concept, or at the end of the period to solidify a point, there are multiple ways to incorporate YouTube videos into any curriculum. My one suggestion is to use videos that are less than five minutes. Remember, these should be used to support the topic, not be the focus of it.

**Twitter.** I call this idea “two hundred and eighty characters of