While simple in nature, allowing your class more freedom regarding your seating chart and bathroom policy signals a sign of good faith to your students. Ultimately, you are building a foundation of trust and respect—two key elements of an effectively run classroom.

## WHAT **YOU** CAN DO TOMORROW

In addition to saying goodbye to the traditional seating chart and bathroom routine, here are a few more simple ideas that will solidify your classroom management by adding clarity and student responsibility to your routines.

- **REVIEW YOUR RULES.** I often kept certain rules around, not because they were effective and improved my classroom management, but simply because I had always used them. With that in mind, take a few minutes tomorrow and evaluate the effectiveness of each of your rules. I’m guessing that if you *really* look at them, you will discover that a few of them could be dropped without impacting your effectiveness.

- **PUT UP THE DAILY SCHEDULE.** Students like knowing the plan for the day, and putting the class schedule on the board is an easy way to keep them in the loop. And you don’t necessarily need to be super specific with this; a general overview is enough. This simple act will help improve classroom management because it allows students to know what is coming up versus leaving them in the dark. Uncertainty often leads to disruptive behavior, and knowing what to expect alleviates this. Plus, as the teacher, this schedule will help you stay on track, eliminating tangents