* **ASK YOUR STUDENTS TO MAKE YOU PROUD.** I’m a big believer that all students truly want to succeed. I also believe that, despite what the news might say, students still have a great deal of respect for their teachers. That’s why I blend these two concepts together on a regular basis by asking my students to make me proud through their behavior and effort. By simply letting students know that you expect their absolute best, you will offset many of the classroom management issues (tardiness, disrespectful behavior, disengagement).

* **THANK YOUR CLASS AT THE END OF THE PERIOD.** Like the smile at the beginning, ending class with a “thank you” shows your class that you appreciate their time and that you value the thoughts they shared. Even better, give them high fives, fist bumps, or personalized handshakes on their way out the door (see Hack 9). Again, it’s important to model the behavior you want to see, and the more you thank them, the more they will reciprocate.

## A BLUEPRINT FOR FULL IMPLEMENTATION

**Step 1: Clearly articulate your expectations on day one.** The sooner you can establish the expectations of your class, the better off you and your class will be. While I am not suggesting that you bombard your students with a bunch of rules as soon as they walk in the door (see Hack 1), I am recommending that you let your students know that you expect their absolute best, both in and out of the classroom, from day one.

**Step 2: Hold all students to high expectations.**