self-grading a shot. If executed well, this type of grading  
should run similar to a discussion, with follow-up and  
clarifying questions asked throughout. As you do this, you  
should be hearing your students’ voices just as often, if not  
more frequently, than your own.  

**A BLUEPRINT FOR FULL IMPLEMENTATION**  

**Step 1: Research self-assessments.**  
You can find many resources that explain the logic behind using self-  
assessments. In *Hacking Assessment*, Starr Sackstein offers a wealth  
of ideas to promote a shift in assessment mindset, to foster student  
involvement in assessment, and to maximize digital resources. Flip  
through the research, and see if you think these could improve the  
learning (and thus the classroom environment).  

**Step 2: Let your students know it’s OK to be wrong.**  
One of the biggest hurdles for students to get over initially is the idea  
that being wrong is bad. While I am not arguing that being wrong is  
by any means ideal, students need to know that part of  
understanding why something is right is the ability to understand why  
something else is wrong. This hack works best when students let  
their guards down and aren’t afraid to ask for clarity about why their  
answers are wrong. This is where making personal connections  
comes into play (see Hack 3). The more comfortable they feel  
around you as a person, the more likely they are to take this risk as a  
student.  

**Step 3: Continue the discussion about self-assessments.**  
The key to effectively implementing this hack lies in the clarity and  
consistency with which you present it. Stress the trust that you are