This is the moment when you incorporate movement into part of your lesson. When introducing this concept to your class, make sure you are clear about both the guidelines of the assignment and the parameters of the movement. But be warned—activities like these often get a little loud. That said, it’s also important to keep in mind that learning doesn’t have to be a quiet activity.

**Step 4: Start finding new ways to move.**
Once you have incorporated controlled movement into your established lessons, start looking for ways to include it into your new lessons as you create them. Rather than it being an additional activity you throw in, make lessons involving movement that are intentional and purposeful for the learning.

**Step 5: Arrange your class to allow for more movement.**
After establishing movement as part of your regular routine, try organizing your room in a way that invites students to get up and move. Using a variety of seating arrangements for the different activities will not only accommodate the movement, it will also create an element of anticipation for students as they walk in the door and see a new classroom layout.

**Step 6: Purchase some standing desks.**
Standing desks allow your students to move on a daily basis, even when the lesson doesn’t specifically call for it. These desks are great classroom management resources in that students who stand are able to shake out their jitters without disrupting the overall flow of the class. Plus, from my experience, standing up helps students stay focused and connected to what is happening, and that engagement further limits the chances of students interrupting the learning. And while I’m not a fan of seating charts (see Hack 1), you may need a system for rotating students so that everyone gets a chance to use