happenings within the classroom. So rather than starting the year by telling students what *isn’t* allowed, classroom management 2.0 provides students with a little more freedom in regard to what is permitted. Essentially, with just a few minor tweaks to what you already do, this hack will transform the basic elements of your classroom management routine into processes that benefit both you and your students.

# THE HACK: REMEMBER, IT’S A CLASSROOM, NOT BOOT CAMP

Classroom management 2.0 is a concept based around the idea that students should be treated a little less like soldiers and a little more like people. As teachers, we ask a great deal of our students each and every day, and as a show of good faith, we should find little ways where we can loosen the chokehold of control and give them an opportunity to have a voice in what their class will look like. By providing them this freedom, you are also giving them the opportunity to take more ownership in the class. This, in turn, will result in a more engaged and attentive class.

Now, I am by no means suggesting that you let the inmates run the prison. You are still the one in charge of the room. However, I am recommending that you not only get input from your students regarding the day-to-day rules and procedures, but also alter some of your tried-and-true classroom management strategies. In fact, I’m going after two of the classics right off the bat!

**Seating charts.** The golden oldie of classroom management 1.0! Rather than assigning students seats on the first day, give them the opportunity to sit where they want. Then, as you are discussing other rules and procedures, let them know that they are welcome to sit where they want as long as they are able to responsibly handle the