# PRAISE FOR HACKING CLASSROOM MANAGEMENT

Hollywood might not make a movie about you, even if you read and apply every suggestion in this book, but you and your students are much more likely to feel like classroom stars because of it. Mike writes from experience; he’s learned, sometimes the hard way, what works and what doesn’t, and he shares those lessons in this fine little book. The book is loaded with specific, easy-to-apply suggestions that will help any teacher create and maintain a classroom where students treat one another with respect, and where they learn.

*Chris Crowe, English Professor at BYU, Past President of ALAN, author of Death Coming Up the Hill, Getting Away with Murder: The True Story of the Emmett Till Case; Mississippi Trial, 1955; and many other YA books*

Mike Roberts has brought to life a classroom management guidebook that is practical, inspirational, and much needed. As we all know, if you don’t have classroom management, you ain’t got squat! No matter what grade you teach, there’s something of great value inside. Two Big Thumbs UP!

*Alan Sitomer, CA Teacher of the Year Award Winner, Author Short Writes*

This is the book I wish I had when I first walked into my 7th grade English/Language Arts classroom 18 years ago. Mike Roberts has captured perfectly what teachers need to know and be able to do in order to build rapport with students so they will be open and receptive to learning. This easy-to-read text includes “What You Can Do Tomorrow” sections in each chapter for the desperate teacher who needs quick tips to get back on course, as well as “Full