Hello Parents,

Welcome to 8<sup>th</sup> grade English! As a way to get to know your child better, I need your help. Here’s the scoop...

Please email me five little-known facts about your child. **Please do not use your child’s name in your description!** Detail things like his/her hobbies, talents, and accomplishments. If possible, try to include items that your child may not share with many people.

I will be reading these letters out loud, and the class will try to figure out who it is based on your description. This is a great opportunity for you to brag about (and maybe embarrass) your child a little. Also, please do not tell your child what you’re writing! This assignment works best when he/she gets to hear it for the first time in class.

I will begin reading these on the first day of school, and I will continue reading them until they run out! And when you respond, if you could please include your child’s name in the subject line of the email, that would really help me keep things organized.

Thanks in advance for taking part in this assignment. The kids always love this, and we (the class and me) really get to know one another better as a result of your participation.

Looking forward to a great year!

Thanks,  
Mike Roberts

**Behind the Scenes Act 8: Parent Email**

This activity serves two purposes. First, it makes your initial contact with parents a positive one. This establishes your relationship with them by starting the year on the right footing. Second, it builds a sense of community within your class, one that will help solidify the relationships with and among your students. And as evidenced throughout the previous hacks, strong rapport generally equates to fewer classroom management issues.

**Two positive emails a day.** At the end of each day, send out two emails where you identify various positive activities that you saw