not feel the need to get up later. This is another fast activity, and I recommend spending one minute or less in these discussions as a way to keep everyone actively engaged from start to finish.

**Musical chairs.** If you’re looking to have an active discussion with multiple questions, have your students change seats each time you present them with a new question. If you really want to get creative, put on music while they change seats and have them sit once the music ends. Here’s how it looks: Have all your students stand up next to their desks. Let them know that they can move around only while the music is playing. Once the music stops, they need to sit in the closest empty chair. This arrangement then becomes a discussion group for the question. Once that question is over, they stand up and repeat the process.

You will be amazed at how engaged they will be if you play five or ten seconds of their favorite songs. (I recommend not going longer than that. When they’re given too much time to complete a simple task, classroom management begins to fall apart.) And if you really want to mess with your students, learn the lyrics of some of these songs and sing along! I often use the free iTunes samples as a way to vary the songs that I play. The length of time for this activity depends on how many questions you have and how long you want to dedicate to each song.

**Walk-n-talk.** This one takes a lesson on the road! Rather than sitting in class presenting your lesson, pair students up and go walk around the neighborhood, school campus, or field discussing the topic. Here’s an example:

1. Figure out where you want to hold your walk-n-talk. My class usually goes around our local neighborhood, but playing fields and tracks are also great for this activity.