determine their present, the ideas presented here allow your students’ potential to create their future.

## THE HACK: EXPECT THEIR BEST (IN AND OUT OF THE CLASSROOM)

I love the first day of school. Teachers show up in their nicest outfits, feeling relaxed from summer vacation, students are bright-eyed and ready to learn, and your room smells fresher than it will the rest of the year. You relish getting to know your students, and you are sure that they will find more success in your class than in any other class they have ever taken. It’s a magical time!

Now fast forward to the week before winter break. The relaxed feelings of summer have been replaced with three months of stress, your once-eager students now drag themselves to class, and your room smells like a mixture of feet and body odor. And your wardrobe? Let’s just say that your first-day outfit has been replaced by jeans and a T-shirt that you may or may not have worn yesterday. So the question that begs to be asked is: Where did all that first-day optimism go?

If you’re like many teachers, the day-to-day problems of school often impact the attitude that we bring to the classroom. As a result, all the little issues that arise over the course of a school year end up shattering our best of intentions. This approach is somewhat backwards, if you ask me. Rather than letting the school’s problems impact your attitude, you should instead let your attitude shape the actions of school. Let me explain.

When the year starts, we (hopefully) set the bar high with regard to classroom expectations. We let our students know what to do to find success, and we hope (and sometimes pray) that it will all work out. We trust them, both in and out of class, to do what’s right. But as