**growth.**

These parent emails are a great way to look at how students have grown in all aspects of their lives, and the messages can focus on what the child has *learned* rather than on the grade that they *earned*. It’s also just a really fun way to wind down the school year.

## OVERCOMING PUSHBACK

The beauty of this hack is in its simplicity. It can be done quickly, and can easily be applied within any class, regardless of grade level or subject. But like anything else, some people might have concerns about trying this out. Here are possible responses:

**I don’t have time for this.** Let’s be real here. We are talking about five minutes or less per day! Try it and you’ll see that it’s a very small amount of time compared to a very large return on investment.

**Some of my families don’t have email.** This is a legitimate concern, but one that is becoming less and less common as technology continues to grow. The solution to this would be to either call the parent or send a hard copy/note home with the student. The downside to these alternatives is that it’s sometimes difficult to reach parents by phone, and notes, well, they don’t always seem to make it to their final destination.

**What about the student whose parents don’t respond?** I generally don’t get concerned if I don’t hear back from a parent regarding a positive email that I randomly sent. And actually, I am amazed at how many parents do email me back. But the beginning- and end-of-the-year emails are a pretty big deal, and if I don’t hear back from parents (after a few reminders), I usually ask the student if they would like to write up something on their own. If not, I will ask them if it is OK for me to write it up for them. Finally, if they refuse both offers, I give them the chance to opt out of this activity. But for