of options, the increased levels of engagement will more than make up for the time you spend front-loading the learning. Plus, teaching becomes much more fun when students are excited about your class, and the ideas in this hack will create positive energy. So rather than looking at it as more work, look at it as an investment that will pay big dividends later!

## THE HACK IN ACTION

Student Maddy Frech has experienced personalized learning firsthand, and she is a big proponent of its use. “It is important for teachers to allow their students to have appropriate, personalized learning in the classroom because it gets students to enjoy what is happening in class. Oftentimes, students detest learning and school simply because it’s so boring. But when teachers give students some choice in the learning, it almost becomes fun! There are so many examples of when I have been so into an assignment that I didn’t want to actually leave the classroom!”

One of her favorite assignments was a music parody video she helped choreograph based around the Civil War. Frech, who has spent years dancing both within and outside of school, was allowed the opportunity to blend her passion for dance with her academic life. “I loved this activity so much that I actually put in way more time and effort than was required. It not only prepared me for the final exam, but I was actually excited to take the test so I could show off what I had learned!”

She says that the benefits of personalized learning extend far beyond academics. “When teachers provide fun activities and experiences, students not only start to appreciate the class and the lesson, but also the teacher. Students are excited to walk into a class that they know will be engaging, and they will work harder and behave better for teachers who give them those chances. Plus, when you are having fun doing something, it’s a lot harder to get off task.”

A well-behaved class where students are having fun as they learn? How many of us would be fine with that?