repeat what I just said for those who showed up late. So rather than jumping right in, I’d let my students chat quietly as I caught up on a few emails or took attendance. Finally, after everyone had arrived, I’d begin class by giving an overview of the day.

> A high five can be given out for even the smallest act. It’s a quick, cheap, and effective way to keep students in a positive mindset during class.

Meanwhile, a similar scenario held true for the last two minutes of my class. After a long lesson, students (and generally me, too) were ready to move on, and all too often I fell back onto the “work quietly until the bell rings” mantra as a way to wrap things up. At this point, much like the beginning of class, the last few minutes would slowly erode away as my students worked quietly in small groups and I returned to my desk to do some grading or input scores.

Not exactly the kind of exemplary scenario you see in the movies, eh? (At least not from the good teachers.) But after years of letting minutes slip away on a daily basis, I slowly began to realize that this time could serve as a valuable and impactful part of class. And while two minutes here or there might not sound like much in the big picture, at the time, it represented nearly 10 percent of my class period. *Ten percent!* After realizing this, I knew that I needed to change how I used those intro and closing minutes.

**THE HACK: FIST BUMPS, HIGH FIVES, AND SHOUT-OUTS**

After wasting all that time for way too long, I now consider those four minutes as the most important minutes of my entire class period.