# Tip of the Week
## Sample Ideas and Videos

Tip – Be the hero of your own movie.  
YouTube Video - “Joe Rogan: Be the Hero of Your Own Movie”  

Tip – Have big goals, but don’t lose sight of the small things.  
YouTube Video - “Test Your Awareness: Do the Test”  

Tip – Be creative in whatever you do.  
YouTube Video - “SWA Rap”  

Tip – A little gesture can mean a lot.  
YouTube Video - “Free Hugs Campaign - Official Page”  

Tip – Do awesome things in your life.  
YouTube Video - “People Are Awesome 2013 Hadouken”  

Tip – Find your greatness.  
YouTube Video - “Nike: Find Your Greatness - Jogger”  

Tip – It’s OK to draw outside the lines every now and then.  
YouTube Video – “JK Wedding Entrance Dance”  

*Behind the Scenes Act 9: Tip of the Week – Sample Ideas and Videos*

**Wednesday: Failure and Growth** – As students walk in on Wednesday, I ask them to reflect on anything they might have failed at over the previous week. This can be any issue, including academics (didn’t keep up on homework), friendships (said mean words), or athletics (lost a game). These failures can be expressed verbally (with a partner), digitally (on a Google Doc), or in written format (in a journal). Once students have reflected on their failures, I ask them to explain what they learned from this and how they can grow as a result. This self-reflection (see Hack 7) helps students realize that mistakes are a part of life, and the value comes from what we learn as a result.

**Thursday: Thankful Thursday** – In today’s world, it is easy to complain about what we *don’t* have, and if you have spent any time around kids, you know they are experts at this. And rather than complaining about how unfair the world is or what they didn’t get for