with a fist bump, a smile, and a “what up?” This simple act sets a positive tone for the day and allows me the opportunity to gauge how my students are doing prior to the beginning of class. For example, if a student comes in looking a bit down, talking with them for a few seconds will give me insight into what’s happening before we dive into the daily grind of class. This, in turn, will help me better understand why they might not be as engaged as usual that day. These quick conversations, which generally only last a few seconds, are a simple way for me to diagnose my students’ moods before I start teaching.

After the bell rings, I move from the doorway into my class, thus beginning the two-minute warmup. (There are numerous names for these types of activities, including starters, do-now, and bell-ringers.) And while this is an informal and soft start to my class, it serves a purpose in that it prepares students to be productive by easing them into the learning in an engaging and enjoyable way. This helps them buy in to what is happening, and as a result, they are much quicker to jump on board with the lessons. And while teachers need to find warmup activities that work for them and their classes, here is a list of my daily warmup activities that you are welcome to use or adapt.

**Monday: Good Weekend/Bad Weekend.** This concept is pretty simple. For one minute or so, I ask students to share all the good things that happened to them the prior weekend. This allows students the chance to show the class (and me) pieces of their personal lives that we might not otherwise know about. Activities like family events and hobbies are often discussed during this time, and it definitely starts class in the right direction.

Once the good parts have been talked about, we turn our attention to the not-so-good parts. Again, students often share personal details here, including stuff that is challenging and troubling. And