students a serious dose of honest feedback with regard to their submissions. Generally speaking, this goes over well, and the writing dramatically improves. There was one student, however, who after receiving my feedback, struggled to understand my suggestions. She and her parents were initially quite upset about the recommendations that I had made, and she was hesitant to stray from her original ideas. But because of the positive and personal relationship that we had established throughout the year, she slowly started to embrace my recommendations. After a while, it seemed like the more we discussed her letter, the stronger our relationship became. Since that time, the student has reflected back numerous time about the critical feedback she received, and the family has returned to my classroom many times to reminisce about that defining moment in their daughter’s learning.”

Ms. Button concludes by saying, “I’m very clear with my students that I want to get to know and learn about them so that I can push and challenge them to do and be their best. This is where I find the joy of teaching—meeting these unique individuals, learning about them, and seeing them surpass their perceived limits. My students know that when I push them and have difficult conversations with them about the quality of their work or a social/behavior situation, it’s because I care about them. And after they work through that frustration/problem, our class becomes an even stronger community.”

From the minute your students walk into your class to the moment they leave, every second should be used to solidify the learning and