have found that a teacher’s expectations of me have a great influence on both my work effort and my desire to do well in class. In every class I have taken, my success in that class can be traced almost exclusively to the expectations set by the teacher.” He continues, “In a class with lower standards, I notice students talking over the teacher and ignoring the lesson. In a class with higher expectations, however, I have noticed those same kids being quiet and doing their absolute best to understand the material that is being taught.”

Beals says students are well aware when teachers aren’t holding up their end of the bargain. “There are many teachers that try to hold high standards for their students who struggle to demonstrate those same expectations themselves. There have been times where a teacher has given my class a test or assignment, and after we turn it in, it takes them weeks to grade it. For some things, such as papers, this makes sense. In other circumstances, like a ten-point quiz, it doesn’t make a lot of sense for the teacher to take that long to grade them.” His point is that when teachers don’t model the behavior they want to see, students begin to question it. “If I can’t hold my teachers to high standards, why should they be able to hold me to such high standards?”

Setting and modeling high expectations runs much deeper than any content. It’s believing that both you and your students are capable of greatness, regardless of the past, and it’s a willingness to work hard to accomplish such greatness.

In the movie *Stand and Deliver*, Jaime Escalante modeled how to