fulfilling the requirements of the assignment all at once.  
Meanwhile, students who prefer a buffet-style of  
assessments can still demonstrate what they learned by  
completing two or three less-complicated projects, thus also  
satisfying the point requirements. This allows students to  
personally select the assessment methods that work best for  
them. Plus, if you make all the options engaging and fun, you  
will be amazed at how many students submit more than the  
required number of points!  

3. **Let students have total control over an assessment.** For  
the really brave, a third option is to give your students  
complete control over their final assessment. I call this one  
the “Do Something That Impresses Me” option. Simply put,  
after we have completed a unit, I ask students to create a  
project that not only shows me what they have learned, but  
also impresses me. After nearly twenty years of teaching, my  
students know that I am difficult to impress, and it is fun to  
see them push themselves. Additionally, they also complete a  
self-assessment explaining how their project reaches the  
learning target and why I should be impressed by it (see  
Hack 7). Some of my favorites include a student learning how  
to unicycle specifically for this project, another who taught the  
class how to ride a horse while riding a horse on the back field  
of the school, and a third who built an automatic watering  
system for the class plants. Needless to say, I was impressed  
by all of those!  

By creating more opportunities for personalized learning, your students  
will actually be excited to complete the work, and with this excitement  
will come a more active and productive level of student involvement. The  
end result of this is increased engagement and learning, and decreased  
boredom and problematic behavior.