without using words. I suggest keeping this short (less than five minutes), but then giving students the chance to share and explain their artwork or photos.

# A BLUEPRINT FOR FULL IMPLEMENTATION

## Step 1: Set up your accounts.

The best way to get to know social media is to play around with it. If you don’t have a Twitter or Instagram account, I suggest setting them up. And when considering your Twitter handle, it’s wise to go with a name that’s easy, catchy, and short. Mine is @baldroberts.

## Step 2: Find out how it works.

Once your accounts are set up, send out a tweet or post, and start following people! In addition to helping you better understand how to utilize this resource in class, it can serve as a valuable teaching tool as you begin to follow other teachers and professional organizations from around the world. Odds are your favorite teacher, author, and educational consultant all have accounts, and now you will have access to everything they have to offer.

## Step 3: Create a social-media-related assignment.

Each of the three examples mentioned earlier (YouTube, Twitter, Instagram) can serve as simple, yet effective, starters or exit tickets. At the same time, they can also be expanded if you are looking for something with a little more meat to it. Don’t hesitate to ask your students for ideas regarding how to incorporate more social media into your curriculum.

## Step 4: Let students share their work.

Students love sharing assignments like these, so make sure you leave time for them to present their work. At the end of class, I often let my students vote on the best tweet, and I have been known to