analysis (peer review to self-assessment), learning definitely plays a key role in the implementation of this hack. Additionally, these strategies allow both you and your students to better understand the learning that has occurred. As a result, you will be able to more accurately target your next unit.

**I’m fine with students self-assessing, but I don’t feel comfortable letting students assess each other.**  
Remember, any time students look at the work of their peers, they are *reviewing* their work, not *assessing* it. They don’t edit the work in *any* way, but instead they comment on the strengths and weaknesses of the assignment. Like many benefits of this hack, this process allows students to see what others think of their work, thus giving them a more solid foundation from which to base their own assessment.

## THE HACK IN ACTION  
Katie Schwab, a veteran second-grade teacher, recently made the switch to a more student-led assessment style, and says she’s been amazed by the results. While initially uncertain about how it might work, she soon discovered that there are many ways to have students assess themselves. As she started trying different assessment methods, it quickly became clear that the biggest difference between her old method and the new one was in the motivation of her students.

“I have jars with the various learning targets on them, and kids put their name sticks in the jar that best illustrates where they think they are in terms of meeting that target at any given moment. I have baskets with ‘not yet,’ ‘almost,’ and ‘got it,’ and students put their work where they think it should go. They also talk about their learning much more frequently now, and they immediately know what their strengths and weaknesses are,” Schwab says.