the record, I can count on my two hands the number of kids who have chosen to completely withdraw from this.

**I talk to parents at parent/teacher conferences. Isn’t that enough?** Simply put, no. Meeting two, maybe even three, times per year falls far short in keeping parents connected with what is happening. To me, parent/teacher conferences are the equivalent of newspapers pre-internet—the only option at the time. But in today’s instant-access society, parent/teacher conferences just don’t cut it by themselves. Of course, the face-to-face time is valuable, but email messages are a timely and effective addition to your parent communications.

**I already leave comments on assignments via my grading system.** While this is good, comments like these seem less personal than an email. Plus, while I know students often read these comments, parents generally don’t. Additionally, younger students often don’t turn in assignments via programs like these, and they deserve just as much recognition for the positive acts they do as the older students.

## THE HACK IN ACTION

Parent Jill Lang is a big believer in the role that email can serve in creating a strong bond among the teacher, the parents, and the student. Lang is especially fond of the beginning-of-the-year email that asked her to share her parental insights about her child. She explains that the introductory email “allowed the teacher to get to know my son on a more personalized level. He asked questions about who my child was, including wanting to know what his favorite sports are, what he likes to do in his free time, and any secret talents he might have. By doing this, I felt confident that the teacher had a true interest in my child as a person, not just as a student.” Lang