Now before I go any further, let me emphasize that I didn’t say that those four minutes are the most important *teaching* minutes of my class period. In fact, the four minutes I’m talking about generally have little to do with the content we are addressing that day. And that’s why they are so important to classroom management.

Think about it. Depending on the length of your classes, students often spend between forty-five and ninety minutes engulfed in the content of your class. And to complicate it even more, they will follow up your class by doing that exact same thing (albeit in another subject) *multiple times per day!*

When I first started looking into changing my teaching approach, I couldn’t help but think of each class period as its own little workout that focused on a different part of the brain. And as many of us know, working out too hard for too long often leads to burnout. That’s why warming up and cooling down are so important to a workout. The warmup allows your body to slowly build up to the stress of a workout, and the cool-down helps to slowly drop the level of exertion from the session back to a normal range. And thus began the two-minute warmup and cool-down concepts for my classroom.

Now, if I’m being honest, when I first started this, I was doing it simply to give myself a chance to breathe. But as this concept slowly developed, I began to realize that, in addition to giving me and my students a little much-needed downtime, these minutes could also serve as a valuable tool in helping me build and maintain my relationship with my class. So rather than just letting them talk as I was busy working at my desk, I decided to connect with them in a way that was somehow missing during our class discussions. And it worked.

Here’s a quick peek into how the warmup and cool-down sessions work. As students enter my room, I usually greet them at the door