* **START EACH CLASS WITH A SMILE.** As easy as this sounds, this simple act will set the tone for the rest of your class. If your students see that you’re in a good mood, they will feed off the vibe you’re sending out. A positive mood generally relates to fewer discipline infractions, and this results in more smiles. And so the cycle begins.

* **TELL YOUR STUDENTS YOU EXPECT THEIR BEST ON A DAILY BASIS.** Over the course of my career, there have been times when my students have struggled on an assignment, not because it was too difficult, but because my directions were not clear and understandable. The same holds true with regard to behavior. When addressing expectations, explicitly teach and model the behaviors you want to see in your students. Don’t assume they know what you mean—show them!

* **DRESS UP.** I have a mantra that says, “Look good. Feel good. Do good.” I don’t know the science behind it, but I do know that when I dress up, my expectations (for myself and my students) are higher than normal. Plus, teachers often talk about wanting to be treated as professionals, and for this to happen, we need to dress accordingly.

    I also use this philosophy with my students. I tell them that, as a general rule, they will get dressed up for all the big occasions in their lives (graduations, weddings, award ceremonies, funerals). I also let them know that unit tests and presentations in my class are big occasions, and that they should dress up on those days. And yes, before you ask, I do notice an improvement in their behavior on those days!