## Step 5: Include downtime in the mix.

Don’t you love those rare occasions when you get a couple of free minutes to just relax? Sometimes even a few minutes of relaxation is enough to jump-start the old system! And the same holds true with your students. Look for little ways that you can take some of the daily pressure off students. What about a Monday meditation session to start class? Or how about homework-free Wednesdays? There are numerous opportunities to give your students a break, and if you plan for them, the “lost” content time will be replaced by their increased productivity while working.

## OVERCOMING PUSHBACK

Is fun a necessary part of school? No, it isn’t. Will your class be more inviting and student-oriented if you incorporate more fun into your daily routine? You better believe it! But old habits die hard, and for those who think fun should happen outside the weekday hours of 7:30 a.m. to 3:30 p.m., here are some thoughts.

**I don’t have time for fun during class.** Classroom management is about a lot more than implementing rules; it’s about understanding your students. If you work students too hard for too long, burnout or kickback is bound to happen. By adding in a daily dose of fun, you will keep your students engaged in the learning, with an added bonus of more stable behavior as a result of letting out some of the pressure from the daily stress of school.

**This sounds like a lot of work.** There really isn’t a way to deny this one when it comes to the bigger ideas like field trips and guest speakers. And while it will take extra work to crank up the fun, the majority of these ideas are fairly simple and inexpensive. The payoff is that your students will enjoy class more, behave better, and learn more in the process. It will make your day more interesting, too!