students say. The majority of the concepts center on the students sharing, so all you really have to do is get the ball rolling.

**My students won’t participate in this.** This is where picking the right warmup subject comes in. Choose topics that they *want* to talk about. And regarding the failures and haiku activities, I believe you will be surprised at how willing students are to create and share them. As for the cool-down, it’s OK to let students be a little loose with their shout-outs. To me, this shows that they are comfortable in their environment, and that’s kind of the point to all this.

**My students don’t do well with unstructured time.** Let’s be clear about this—this is not a free-for-all. Both the warmup and the cool-down are structured activities. You are leading both discussions from start to finish, and your students should be following the usual class rules and procedures. It’s still organized—it’s just not about content.

**THE HACK IN ACTION**

Fifth-grade teacher Sarah Button points out that she spends six-plus hours a day with her students, and that for any meaningful learning to take place, she has to know what makes her students tick. “What are their hobbies? What sports do they play? Who are my super readers? Who doesn’t like reading? What instruments do they play? I really try to find out who my students are in the first few weeks of school, and I make sure to share my hobbies and interests with them as well. In my experience, once my students and I really get to know each other, the foundation is set for mutual respect and real learning can then begin,” Button says.

An example of this “real learning” takes place every year during an annual writing contest where students are asked to write a letter to an author about how their book affected them personally. Button explains, “During the revision process for this contest, I offer