ball into the garbage can are always big hits in my class. The more interactive the better!

- Read a children’s book aloud that emphasizes the skill or concept you’re studying. This works regardless of the grade or subject. Plus, if you’re looking to settle a group down, read them a story and watch the craziness melt out of the room.
- Need more ideas? Check out Hack 9 for more fun and engaging ideas.

## Step 3: Have mini-celebrations!

If you look for them, there are all kinds of reasons to celebrate in class. Birthdays. Holidays. Team championships. Winter break. Spring break. The list goes on! The opportunities are there. The question is, are you willing to give up a minute or two to celebrate them?

## Step 4: Plan field trips and bring in guest speakers.

As much as students love coming to your class, they love not coming to your class even more! Field trips are a great way to enhance the learning via an experiential adventure. And these don’t have to be all-day escapades. Some quick-trip ideas include the park, the zoo, local museums, the courthouse, and the police station. Trips like these can often be cross curricular in nature, and blending in a little collaboration never hurts. Don’t have the money to take your class on a trip? Then bring the info to the class courtesy of a guest speaker! While musicians and authors are awesome, they often come with a hefty price tag. If you are willing to put in a little elbow grease, there are local experts like judges, police officers, and doctors who are often willing to volunteer their insights.