# WHAT **YOU** CAN DO TOMORROW

If you’re looking to ease into this idea, here are five quick concepts that can be smoothly incorporated into any class.

- **GREET YOUR STUDENTS AT THE DOOR.** Greeting your students as they walk in the door is a simple way to start class in a positive direction. It shows students that you care and that you are excited to get the learning started.
- **TRY A WARMUP ACTIVITY.** When students walk in your room, have a warmup activity ready to go. Writing it on the board or telling students as they walk in is an easy way to get them working on this even before class starts.
- **LOOK FOR SMALL VICTORIES DURING CLASS.** Don’t hold back on offering positive praise! A high five can be given out for even the smallest act. It’s a quick, cheap, and effective way to keep students in a positive mindset during class.
- **CUSTOMIZE A HANDSHAKE.** To personalize this even more, some teachers go so far as to create customized handshakes for each student in the class. My personal favorites are the “slap, slap, bump” (slap hands forward, backward, followed by a fist bump), the “explosion” (fist bump that explodes afterwards), and the “upstairs/downstairs” (high five that wraps all the way down to a low five in one fluid motion). And while I don’t know the exact statistics behind it, I do know that everyone, and I mean everyone, enjoys a cool handshake or high five!
- **DO A COOL-DOWN SESSION.** At the end of class, give three shout-outs (and high fives) to your students. It will