sixty minutes of sitting as they complete their homework. And this doesn’t even include any sitting that might happen during assemblies or special meetings that might pop up during the school day! With all that sitting going on, is it any wonder that your students get a little squirrely during class?

## THE HACK: GET 'EM UP AND GET 'EM MOVING!

Letting your students get up and move in a controlled manner during class is crucial to effective classroom management. By simply allowing students to move periodically, you will reduce the number of disruptive situations, thus improving the overall classroom experience for everyone. As a general rule, I have always tried to implement a ten-minute rule in my class. The logic behind this idea is that no lesson where I am explicitly teaching a concept should last longer than ten minutes. That seems to be the length of time students can successfully sit and listen before their interest starts to stray. And while this isn’t necessarily true in all situations, as far as direct instruction in a classroom environment goes, ten minutes seems to be about the limit.

You may be thinking, *But how will adding more movement improve classroom management?* While I know this might sound contradictory, allowing your students to move about the classroom in a controlled manner will greatly improve class behavior. Often, students who go to the bathroom or who get up to sharpen their pencils are doing so simply because they are bored or just need to get the wiggles out. And once they get up, they often take a roundabout manner to get to their destination, disrupting their fellow students and the overall flow of the class in the process.