## Movement gets students excited about the activity itself, and also gets them actively involved in the learning.

This is why it’s so important to control the movement in your class. And no, this does not mean that students aren’t allowed to leave their seats. In fact, it’s quite the opposite. Controlled movement occurs when students are moving based around the learning. By creating these types of opportunities, you, as the teacher, get to guide when and how this movement happens. So rather than disrupting the class through random movements like sharpening pencils or going to the bathroom, students will actually be engaged in the learning environment through their actions.

There are numerous ways to effectively initiate controlled movement within the classroom, each with its own benefits and time requirements.

**Write it on the board.** Rather than you writing on the board when your students share ideas or answers, allow your students the chance to go to the board and write down their thoughts. This gets them moving, and it allows them to have a more authentic engagement with the learning. This is quick and easy, and can usually be done in less than thirty seconds per student. But make sure to stagger which kids go to the board. Sending thirty students at once to write on the board creates a serious logjam, and I can tell you from experience that nothing good has ever happened *in the history of teaching* when thirty students with nothing to do get crammed together within a three-foot radius.

**Turn-n-talk.** After presenting a concept to the class, have students turn-n-talk with one another about what they just learned. The simple act of turning around creates enough movement that students may