placing in them, and let them know exactly what the expectations are each time you try this.

**Step 4: Commit to full implementation.**  
Letting students reflect on their learning is a valuable skill that remains useful throughout school and beyond. Additionally, once they understand how to do it properly, your class will become a place where all students are engaged in the learning process.

## OVERCOMING PUSHBACK  
Adopting a new approach to grading, especially when the old system has been used for decades, can be a hard sell. To help gain support for these ideas, here are answers to a few of the common concerns about this hack.

**What if students are totally off-base with their assessments?**  
This is a serious concern that most likely will happen, especially when you first introduce this concept. Grades are a major stressor for students, and some will see this type of grading as an opportunity to inflate their scores. I offset this by letting students know that if what I see in their work doesn’t jive with the grade they give themselves, we will have a “clarifying” discussion. That in itself limits the grade inflators. In fact, students are often too harsh on themselves. This, too, warrants a conversation. In the end, after discussing it, we come to an agreement about what the score should be and why it deserves that grade. This clarification of the expectations then serves as a guide for the student when doing future self-assessments.

**I need to use the time in class for teaching, not grading.**  
In my view, class time should be used for *learning*, and this hack provides opportunities for that. Whether it is through reflection (self-assessment), discussion (self-grading/discussion-based grading), or