rather than donating the jacket to Goodwill, I let it sit in my closet for years! Yep, it wasn’t until I left for college that I was finally able to pull the plug on that beauty.

I’m not really sure why I kept that jacket around for so long. Maybe it was comforting to know the history behind it. After all, I knew where it came from, what it had been through, and all the stories connected with it. Maybe, in some weird way, seeing it hanging there served as a reminder of how life used to be. While I’ll be the first to admit there is something to be said for nostalgia, sometimes knowing *too much* about the past can have a downside. And this is especially true when it comes to your students.

**Regardless of how often you tell your students that you trust them, find opportunities to show that you trust them.**

Too often, when we see a student’s IEP, the list of accommodations, and the below-average test scores, we instantly lower our expectations. In fact, sometimes there isn’t even a file that causes us to do this. It can be as simple as a student being related to one of your former students. And when this happens, rather than challenging these students to reach new heights, we often allow them to settle for a level of success that is far below their potential. After all, there’s no way a student could change from one year to the next, right?

This hack asks you to turn the tables on the status quo by challenging you to establish, and model, high expectations for your students. And rather than simply letting your students’ past