I believe it helps them retain the information better, and that being active while engaging with the material is a way to help students maintain their energy and focus for the entire class period.”

Ainsworth mixes up his groups while discussing a concept or working at stations. He has found that this allows students the opportunity to work with different peers at different levels. Also, the consistent movement helps keep students on task, and for students who are easily distracted (or are themselves distracting), it limits having to work with the same partner for a long period of time.

“I use a lot of drama, too. When I introduce vocabulary, we move all the desks to the side and students have to get in partners and act out the words as they repeat them. The actions and movement help them internalize the difficult vocabulary, and it also lowers their inhibitions to speak as they have to focus on the movement/drama task,” he says. Ainsworth adds that the movement doesn’t have to last long, and that including even a little movement has benefits. “Movement makes any activity dynamic and gives a sense of urgency to the task.” He is considering a no-desk classroom next year in order to give kids more space for movement and to use manipulatives.

In [Dead Poets Society](Dead Poets Society), English teacher John Keating utilized the idea of controlled movement as a way to enhance the learning and to solidify his relationships with his students. Whether he was teaching a lesson on conformity as students march around the courtyard, having students recite famous quotes while kicking a soccer ball on the field, or letting his students stand on their desks to get a different