As a general rule, the vast majority of your students listen and behave themselves during class—although there are always exceptions. Because of this, class punishments really can have a negative impact on the atmosphere. If a student misbehaves, deal with that student individually. And if you aren’t sure who caused the infraction, lay low until you have a chance to investigate and make an informed decision. If you panic and punish the entire class, you’re isolating yourself from a large percentage of innocent students. Plus, if you start interrogating students and looking for information, you are often unintentionally pitting students against one another. This is a surefire way to break up any trust you’ve built within your class, and as a result, rather than eliminating issues, you may be creating them.

## Step 5: Stop sharing the class average.

While sharing the class average on tests and assignments might seem harmless, in reality, it sets students up to compare themselves to one another. Once grades get involved, students tend to get competitive, and by promoting what “average” looks like, they will naturally compare themselves against that score.

An easy solution is to ask students to reflect on their own grades to see if they represent their best efforts (see Hack 7). This allows your class to think about what they did in comparison to themselves versus comparing their score to what everyone else earned. I always tell my students that the only score they should be concerned with is their own. Besides, your students shouldn’t strive for mediocrity, and that’s exactly the measurement you are asking them to compare themselves against when you post the class average.

## Step 6: Change as needed.

Like most everything else about teaching, be ready to adapt these concepts. In a perfect world, all of these classroom management