Implementation” outlines for more in-depth, year-long future planning. Most importantly, these ideas are practical, cost effective and easy to implement. As a veteran teacher, I would use this book to remind me why I wanted to teach in the first place and how to get back in touch with principles and practices that will lessen student resistance, increase student learning, and reinvigorate my own joy and satisfaction in teaching.

Maria Griffin, Program Manager of Transition to Teaching at Salt Lake Community College

*Hacking Classroom Management* is good for teachers at the beginning, in the middle, and at the end of the teaching journey. Following practical hacks and drawing from both anecdote and film, Roberts offers novel approaches to common concerns inside and outside of the classroom. Whether it is the start of a new year, meeting a new student group, planning for the day, or the unit, Roberts offers a multitude of hacks ready to roll into the room.

Paul Hankins, AP English Language/Composition Teacher at Silver Creek HS in Floyds Knob, Indiana

Mike Roberts is a teacher of immense energy and creativity. In this refreshing book, he applies his talents to creating a classroom culture that promotes deep engagement and joy in service of understanding, independence and expertise. While reading, I was reminded of Vygotsky’s injunction that all teaching and learning are relational and occur in relationship. This book both invites you and shows you how to use various tools to create a positive classroom culture of transformation. I found it immensely fun and illuminating to read!

Jeffery D. Wilhelm, Distinguished Professor of English Education at Boise State University, Author of *Engaging Readers and Writers with Inquiry*, *Diving Deep into Nonfiction*, and 35 other books on literacy

This quick read is a must for all teachers—new teachers, veteran