their birthday, Thankful Thursday helps student think about what they *do* have that is good in their lives. Like the Failure and Growth activity, this can include reflecting on a wide range of both personal and academic issues, and it helps students appreciate many simple, everyday things that they often take for granted.

**Friday: The Week in Haiku** – After a long week at school, nothing wraps things up better than a week-in-review Haiku! Using the standard five-seven-five syllable count, students will amaze you with their poetic abilities. I recommend modeling this by creating a class haiku or two before just setting them loose on their own (this is especially true for younger elementary grades). These short, insightful poems are a great way to gain a little more insight into your students’ lives. And make sure you leave time for your students to share them. Trust me, they will want to! Plus, these are usually pretty funny, and it sets a great tone for often-difficult Friday classes.

A final key ingredient to each of these warmups is to allow students to share their thoughts with the class. When you show that you care about their ideas, students will pay you back by showing you that they care about yours. Respect is a two-way street.

Now you might be thinking that this sounds similar to how I started class for the first several years of my career. It is, after all, just having the students talk about non-content-related topics, right? While the general idea is similar, the process itself is *much* different. In the earlier scenario, I was a bystander, and there were a variety of separate conversations happening all at once. But in the new situation, I have become an active participant in the conversation, one that ideally includes the entire class. So rather than having ten mini-conversations happening all at once, the setting now looks like one cohesive discussion focused on a similar topic.

The purpose of this is to establish a sense of community where