hacks that will make your classroom the place to be for all your students.

## WILL I HAVE TO CHANGE MY CURRICULUM FOR THIS?

Have you ever been to a conference session or a professional development day and walked out with absolutely nothing that was of use to you or your students? Sure, you might have been given some stats and theory on the topic (and, if you’re lucky, maybe even a copy of the PowerPoint), but as far as a takeaway that was actually useful within your classroom, you came away with zilch. Yeah, I’ve been to those, too. After nearly twenty years of attending and presenting at various conferences, a few things have become clear to me.

**Teachers want resources that can be implemented into their current curriculum.** As the majority of teachers will tell you, time is a very valuable commodity. And while there are a bunch of really great teaching resources out there, the problem is that many of them require adjusting (or completely overhauling) your current curriculum in order to implement the ideas. Now if you’re like me, I really don’t want to scrap years of classroom-tested lesson plans just to keep up with the latest educational trend.

It is for this very reason that the majority of the hacks presented here can be incorporated within the context of what you already do. And yes, while some will require more time than others, overall, these hacks are simple and straightforward to execute. After all, the purpose of this book is not to add a pile of new responsibilities to your teaching plate, but rather to help you incorporate some simple, effective, and long-lasting classroom management hacks that enhance what you already successfully do.

**Teachers know that processes proven to work in actual**