Once the expectations have been established, consistently reinforce them. However, the expectations for each student will be different based on ability and situation. It’s crucial to remember that the level of expectation should be challenging, because the point of having high expectations is to push students to reach new heights.

## Step 3: Differentiate often.

Differentiation is a key element to this hack. What differentiation means is rather than asking students to conform to a one-size-fits-all assignment, you make sure that there are a wide range of options available that play to the strengths of the various students within your class. Differentiation should include offering a variety of reading options, project choices, and assessment opportunities. And no, this does not mean that you need to lower your expectations for students. What it means is that you understand how to get the most out of each of your students. Simply put, differentiation gives your students a chance to participate in the learning in a way that is best suited to their individual learning needs.

## Step 4: Model what you want to see from your students.

This is perhaps the most important step in this Blueprint. It’s one thing to tell your students to up their game; it’s another to model what this looks like. Actions speak louder than words, and if you are asking your students to show their best, make sure you are following your own advice.

- Want your students to be on time? Be the first one in class.
- Want your students to be respectful? Say please and thank you frequently.