But be warned, the Instagram assignment takes longer to complete, so this is usually done in class or as homework. Depending on what they are summarizing, students can take/draw anywhere from one to four pictures that reflect the main ideas presented (either in class or from the reading). And when you consider that each of those pictures comes with a caption, it’s clear to see how this assignment could easily eat up an hour or more. Because of this, I recommend setting limits on how long they can work on these. While it’s great that they are so engaged with the assignment, you still want to make sure they are managing their time efficiently (and keeping up on their work in other classes).

Rather than fighting against social media, this hack encourages you to use it to your advantage. (For even more ideas on using social media in the classroom, check out the EdTech Missions in *Hacking Digital Learning Strategies* by Shelly Sanchez Terrell). Engagement is a key element to making a lasting impression on your class, and in today’s world, social media is an engagement magnet. But keep this in mind: Don’t ruin something fun and interactive like social media by making it all serious and school-like. You can still have a learning target for the assignment; just make sure it can be reached in a creative and engaging manner.

**WHAT YOU CAN DO TOMORROW**

Whether you are new to this whole social media thing or a savvy veteran, here are some simple ideas to liven up your teaching.

- **TALK TO YOUR STUDENTS ABOUT WHAT KINDS OF SOCIAL MEDIA THEY USE.** As students walk into your class tomorrow, do an informal survey where you ask them what types of social media platforms they use. If you’re