philosophy. This gives parents some insight into who you are and what you stand for. You definitely don’t want to get too deep into this, and a quick overview should more than suffice. This is also an easy place to ask parents to provide you with five interesting facts about their child (as discussed earlier). Having a few of these ready to go on Day One will give you a great activity to start off the year.

**Step 3: Create a running log of the kind acts that students do.**

There are numerous acts of kindness that happen within our schools every day, but they often get lost or forgotten as a result of our hectic daily schedule. A simple way to keep these organized is to maintain a running log with the student’s name, date, and a brief description of the act. This can be a digital document that you keep on your computer or an old-school spiral notebook that you write in. Either way, taking a few notes at the end of each class will keep you from forgetting the awesomeness you see each and every day.

**Step 4: Keep parents and the principal in the loop.**

While sending home a positive email about a test or an assignment is great, parents also love to hear about the non-academic aspects of their child. Emailing about how their child performed a kind act or improved in class participation shows parents that you recognize and appreciate their child as more than just a percentage in the grade book. These also serve as building blocks for if/when you have to send that difficult email later. In addition, principals are sometimes in the dark about what goes on from day to day in the classroom. Hearing from you will help them become aware of situations that they can’t see for themselves. Plus, focusing on the positive aspects of your class shows that you take pride in your students’ success. Always make sure to copy the student.

**Step 5: Send an end-of-the-year email asking about student**