up to the end of the year. And while I used to ask parents to include the child’s name as a way to celebrate the student’s growth, my class convinced me that trying to guess who is being talked about (like the beginning-of-the-year email) is much more fun. This is a perfect way to wrap up the year by partnering with parents to praise the positive traits and experiences of their child. And seriously, what parents are going to turn down a chance to brag about their children?

Now don’t get me wrong. These emails should by no means replace all of the friendly and enthusiastic conversations you have with your students each and every day. Instead, emails like these should be used to *supplement* those valuable conversations. Because the truth of the matter is, while we all cherish those one-on-one conversations, we also sometimes like to get recognized on a little larger stage, and a simple email can make that happen.

**WHAT YOU CAN DO TOMORROW**

Creating a positive communication channel between you, the parents, and the student doesn’t have to be a long, complicated endeavor. In fact, all it takes is a little awareness and a few minutes per day.

- **PAY ATTENTION TO THE GOOD STUFF THAT YOUR STUDENTS DO.** Your students do amazing acts each and every day, yet too often we fail to give credit where credit is due. Start searching out and recognizing those everyday acts of kindness that happen in and around your classroom on a daily basis, like holding the door open for someone, picking up a classmates’ pen, or even simply saying thank you to the teacher. These are all acts that, in the big picture,