situation. This gives them a sense of ownership about it, and rather than fighting against the seating chart, they will fight for the seating chart. And if certain students are unable to properly cope with this freedom, talk to those students individually and come up with a consequence that they can agree on. But please, *never* punish the entire class by taking this privilege away (see “Don’t punish the entire class” in the Blueprint section of this chapter) based on one or two problematic students.

Now before you get all worried that this will make your class chaotic, rest assured that if your class is like mine, your students will tend to sit in the same general location every day, even without being told to. Students like routine, and they will fall into their own system more easily if you allow them to take a little ownership of the situation.

**Asking to go to the bathroom.** Can we please let this one go? Seriously, when was the last time you had to publicly ask if you could go to the bathroom? I’m guessing it was when you were in school. To put an end to this, as a class, come up with a nonverbal signal that students give you when they need to go to the bathroom. In my class, students simply point to the door when nature calls. I then give a quick nod to let them know that I am aware they are leaving, and off they go. Another simple method is to have a sign-out sheet that students sign whenever they leave. This can be as simple as a pen and paper next to the door.

Both methods save the students the embarrassment of making a public announcement, and it allows you as the teacher to keep the momentum of class flowing. And while it might not sound like much, giving your class this type of respect shows that you are willing to look at them as people, and in return, they will reflect that respect through appropriate in-class behavior.