And while it might not be the most popular opinion, I honestly believe that lecturing has a place within the context of today’s classroom. Not exactly what you expect to hear from a book about becoming a movie-type teacher, eh?

Well, you’re right. While I do think lecturing can be an effective teaching method, I also don’t feel that it should be the *only* teaching method. And too often, as a result of overcrowded classes, the need to cover the required curriculum, or just a fear of releasing some of their power, teachers fall back on this tried-and-tested method. As a result, teachers often end up teaching the *content* rather than teaching the *students*.

> To personalize learning, adjust your teaching to fit your students’ learning styles rather than having them adjust to your teaching style.

So what’s the difference, you ask? Teaching the *content* is a passive learning environment. Engagement is minimal, opportunities to ask questions are limited, and students take in and think about the information individually. Teaching *students*, in contrast, creates an active learning environment. Engagement is high, questions are frequently asked, and students are working with one another and sharing their ideas as they learn.

One of my former college students said it best when he explained that the difference between teaching *content* and teaching *students* is similar to the difference between watching a movie and playing a video game. Movies, he said, provide the viewer with everything they need. All that is required is showing up and sitting back in your chair (and possibly falling asleep). Video games, on the other hand, require planning, thought, and teamwork. It’s an exciting experience where the players take chances, overcome obstacles, and reap the rewards of their hard work.

So using the above analogy, if you were to ask your students to