3. Have students write a brief overview (three to five sentences) explaining why they feel their work reflects the score they gave themselves.
4. Students turn in their assessments.
5. Review student assessments, making additional comments when necessary.

I love letting students self-assess simply because it provides them with the opportunity to tell me what they *do* understand rather than me showing them what they *don’t* understand. Plus, it breaks down the power struggle between teachers and students that often stems from grades, and this ultimately results in a more positive classroom experience.

**Self-grading/discussion-based grading.** Self-grading (also called discussion-based grading) is different than self-assessment in that it is used more often on summative assessments like tests, and self-assessment is used more on formative assessments like those identified above. In essence, this one is more teacher-driven and is used when there is typically one correct answer. From my perspective, tests should be used not only to assess the learning that has previously taken place, but also to guide where the learning goes next. Allowing students to self-grade provides them with an opportunity to ask questions about the test (solidifying their understanding), and supplies you with a better understanding of where they are in relation to the learning goals and, perhaps more important, where they should go next.

It works like this. After completing a test, I ask students to take out their red pens for grading. For the next several minutes, we grade the test together, with students grading their own tests. I read the question, then ask for students to volunteer an answer. This is where