and overdoing a topic (two additional issues that lead to student misbehavior).

- **ELIMINATE COLD CALLING.** Look, I get the logic of this one. You are trying to get everyone involved in the class discussion, and sometimes students need encouragement to participate. But let’s be real here—while it’s true that cold calling on kids improves the level of student participation, it’s crucial to note that it’s a *forced* level of engagement. It would be like saying that the draft improved the number of people in the military. Did it accomplish the goal? Yes. Did it get total buy-in from everyone involved? Probably not.

From my experience both as a student and a teacher, this method can backfire if the student that you call on doesn’t know the answer to your question. And rather than getting that student engaged in the discussion, you just embarrassed that kid in front of the entire class. The end result is that you negatively impacted your relationship with that student, thus damaging any potential sharing that student might have in the future. The worst part is that while it might work nine times out of ten, that one wrong answer given by the student can erase all nine correct responses in one gigantic swoop. From my perspective, it’s just not worth the gamble.

If you truly want to get some of the less-vocal students more involved, front-load the situation by giving them a heads-up after class about what you will be discussing tomorrow, and let them know that you would like to hear their thoughts (see Hack 2). Tell them that they can pick their moments, but when their hands go up, you are going to call on them. This not only gets them involved this one