the activity, it will further strengthen your relationship with those who are taking part in the event.

**Step 3: Invite colleagues along.**

Once you find an event, ask some of your colleagues if they are interested in joining you in attending. In addition to building classroom rapport, school events serve as a great opportunity to solidify collegial relationships. Plus, seeing you hanging out with other teachers is another way for students to see that you have a life outside of your classroom.

**Step 4: Attend the event.**

Whether it’s for fifteen minutes or two hours, the time you spend at the event will be paid back within the classroom. If you really want to add some street cred with your students, sit amongst them in the crowd, and show them a bit of your non-teacher side.

**Step 5: Talk about the event the next day in class.**

Attending is only the first step. The bigger step is talking with your students about it afterwards. Be sure to heap praise on those who participated, and don’t forget to talk with other students who you saw in the crowd about their favorite parts.

**Step 6: Start planning your next event.**

Attending school events shouldn’t be a once-a-year endeavor. For it to have a positive impact on your classroom atmosphere, it should become a regular part of your routine. So check out the calendar, and start planning your next activity.

## OVERCOMING PUSHBACK

All right, so I’m not going to lie—this hack is one of the tougher ones for teachers to get on board with. Incorporating new ideas during the