grade English class. And I still smile at the memory of finally bench-pressing more than Mr. Haggert during my eleventh-grade weightlifting class.

So while I’m sure that I learned a great deal from all of the teachers mentioned above, it’s the fun we had *while learning* that sticks with me today. In addition, when I *really* think about it, those classes are also the ones where I behaved the best. The fact that I looked forward to going, and knowing that they would be interesting and engaging when I got there, kept me on my best behavior. The class itself was the classroom management! And that’s why fun deserves a place within your class.

## WHAT YOU CAN DO TOMORROW

Incorporating fun into the classroom doesn’t have to be about bringing in balloons and throwing a huge celebration. In fact, small, frequent doses of fun are more effective for class morale and performance than the once-a-semester blowout bash. Here are a few ideas to shake things up that can be implemented immediately.

- **CREATE A BIRTHDAY BOARD/WALL.** While this sounds like a big undertaking, it’s really quite simple. Section off part of your whiteboard and label it “This Month’s Birthdays.” Have students fill in their names with their birthdays and upcoming ages. When the day comes, let that student have unique privileges in class, like a special seat or a piece of candy. This only takes a second to acknowledge, and will have little (if any) impact on your lesson that day. But be warned: While singing happy birthday might sound like a good idea, by the time you’ve done it a few dozen times, it kind of loses its flavor.