# To Kill a Mockingbird

## The Assignment –

For your final project, please select one of the options from the list below.

## The Requirements –

The learning target for this assignment is to effectively use textual evidence as support for your ideas, so please make sure that your project provides at least three examples of evidence from the novel. Also, don’t forget to include a works cited page.

## PROJECT OPTIONS –

**Option One:** Type a two-page paper that describes the character from the novel who changes the most throughout the story. Please have at least one quote per body paragraph.

**Option Two:** Analyze a contemporary song and relate the themes of the song to the novel. Be sure to include specific lines from both the song and the book.

**Option Three:** Build a miniature version of Maycomb based on the descriptions given in the book. This can be created by hand (popsicle sticks, Legos) or on a computer (Minecraft). Either way, a map key must be provided for the various houses and objects.

**Option Four:** Create a video where you act out Chapter 32 from the novel. Be sure to include a written transcript that incorporates quotes from earlier in the story.

**Option Five:** Draw a graphic novel version of the story. You must include 15-20 frames, and at least a third of the pictures must contain words.

## Final Thoughts –

If you choose to collaborate with a partner or in a group, you can select who you want to work with. But remember, work with people who will push you up, not pull you down!

Behind the Scenes Act 6: Final Project Options

2. **Give students a list of formative assessment choices and a required point total.** This is a portfolio-based assessment where students create and turn in assignments that add up to a certain number of points. Students who want to challenge themselves can choose the most complex option, thus