creating an entirely new curriculum; it just means that you can add a few more options to your teaching menu. So take a few minutes to look over what you currently do, and ask yourself if there are any spots where you might be able to add in a few more personalized choices for your students.

- **PILOT LETTING STUDENTS SELF-SELECT THEIR GROUPS.** If you’re not quite ready to let students select their own project partners, ease into it by letting them work on an informal assignment together. This is a safe way to explore if you want to do this in the future without dedicating much time and energy to the process. As your students work, keep an eye the situation and take note of what is or isn’t working. The first time I try a new activity, I always let them know that this is a pilot, and the results will determine if I am going to continue it in the future. This usually helps my students put forth their best efforts, and they always let me know which ideas are keepers. Hopefully, as a result of letting students select their groups, you will see students who are excited and engaged with their groups and with the learning itself.

## A BLUEPRINT FOR FULL IMPLEMENTATION

**Step 1: Reflect on the various teaching methods you currently use.** Spend a few minutes and write down all the ways that you share information with your class, as well as how you assess the learning. Make sure you have specific examples demonstrating each method. Once you have a list, reflect on the effectiveness of each method and assessment. If you are struggling to come up with specifics, try recording yourself for a class period or two. As you review the video, pay attention to how much time you spend on the various teaching and assessment methods that you implement during each class. Things you will want to pay attention to include how much talking you do versus how much your