make them, and you, leave class feeling good!

## A BLUEPRINT FOR FULL IMPLEMENTATION

**Step 1: Get started as soon as possible.**

I suggest implementing this concept at the start of the year, quarter, or semester. By using it early, it will provide time for students to really get into it. Additionally, it will give you the chance to establish a positive class culture right from the get-go.

**Step 2: Be consistent in implementation.**

Students thrive on routine, so it’s important that you use this in a consistent manner. Doing it occasionally is similar to teaching a skill without a context—it usually doesn’t stick. So figure out a plan that allows you to do it regularly. And if doing this daily seems overwhelming, maybe look at incorporating these ideas twice a week or on Fridays. Just make sure that whatever schedule you set up, you stick to it.

**Step 3: Involve your students.**

Listen to what your students are talking about, and use that information as the springboard for your warmups. If they are already invested in a topic, they will be more likely to share their thoughts when you bring it up. And the more they open up during the warmup and cool-down, the more likely they are to express their thoughts during class discussions. Similarly, the more they positively participate, the less likely they are to be a disruptive presence.

**Step 4: Vary your topics and involve as many students as possible.**

Make sure you address a wide range of topics during your warmups. The last thing you want to do is to consistently bring up a topic of interest to you and you alone. This hack is aimed at bringing