**But I am their teacher, not their friend.** While this is completely true, you can still strive to be supportive of your students as often as you can. Extracurricular activities give you a chance to interact in a friendly, yet professional, manner with your students. You can be friendly and encouraging while being their teacher. And remember, when you attend activities like these, you are still a representative of the school, so act accordingly.

### THE HACK IN ACTION

Let’s play a little Jeopardy. The answer: Fifty-seven. The question: How many middle school dances that I have chaperoned over the past eighteen years? Yep, you read that correctly: fifty-seven middle school dances!

Now, have I enjoyed all of them? Nah, of course not. I mean, it’s two hours of awkward dancing, bad food, and way too much cologne. Seriously, it’s a middle school dance. Do I need to say more? But do I feel like each of them helped me to establish positive relationships with my students? Absolutely. When my students see that I am there to support the awkward dancing, to choke down the tasteless food alongside them, and to comment on the need to cut back on the cologne, we connect on a level that just isn’t going to happen in Room 202. Plus, when incoming students see me there, it front-loads the relationships we will have if and when they end up in my class.

So while I would never wish fifty-seven middle school dances upon anyone (not even my worst enemy), I am here to say that moments like those have had a tremendous impact in helping me manage and maintain a positive classroom atmosphere.

PE teacher and coach Bobby Kennedy, who has more than twenty years of teaching and coaching experience spanning kindergarten