deserve recognition. These activities are happening; now it’s up to you to notice.

- **INCLUDE AT LEAST ONE POSITIVE COMMENT WHEN TALKING ABOUT YOUR STUDENTS.** Whenever you’re talking about a student, try to incorporate at least one positive comment sometime during the conversation. It’s easy to jump on the bandwagon in the faculty lounge or at a team meeting when talking about the shortcomings of a student. Try to turn the conversation around by offering up some of the student’s positive traits. Doing so will not only redirect the tone of the conversation, but it will also put you in a better mindset the next time you see that student.

- **SEND TWO POSITIVE EMAILS.** As outlined above, start tomorrow and send two positive emails to celebrate the awesome things your students did today.

**A BLUEPRINT FOR FULL IMPLEMENTATION**

**Step 1: Send an email to your students the week before school starts and introduce yourself.**

Sending an email to your students prior to school serves many purposes. First, it gives you a chance to introduce yourself to your students in a casual manner. Next, it provides your students with a chance to ask any last-minute questions before starting class. This can potentially alleviate the first-day anxiety suffered by some students. Finally, it shows your students that you are excited to meet them and for school to get started.

**Step 2: Send an email to parents and provide a little background about yourself.**

The purpose of this email is similar to the student email except that it gives more of your professional background and teaching