from your students. This can include a student doing well on a test, working hard in class, helping to clean up, or just bringing a friendly attitude to class. If it’s something good, it’s fair game!

These emails should be sent to a variety of recipients including parents, administrators, and colleagues (including counselors and advisors), and they should be used as a way to recognize the good deeds that students do on a daily basis. And always remember to copy the student on the email. Also, be sure to follow up with the student the next day to make sure they know that you are proud of what they did.

These quick emails can be very powerful in strengthening your relationships with students and parents. Sending a positive message shows them that you care about the child as a person, not just as a student. Plus, from a personal perspective, it allows you to walk out the door focused on the positive experiences from the day rather than the all-to-frequent negative stressors that often come home with us.

One quick tip about this one: “Copy and paste” is your friend! For example, if a student does well on a test, I usually shoot out an email saying that I am super proud of her effort. But what if five students do really well on a test? There is no need to come up with five different ways of saying the same thing. Your words still have the same sentiment behind them, regardless of whether they are aimed at one student or a thousand. If you mean it, send it—just make sure to change the name and pronouns!

**End-of-the-year emails.** It is also valuable to get parents involved at the end of the year—just as you did with the email at the beginning of the year. Rather than asking for unusual facts, ask parents to share their thoughts about how their child has grown over the course of the school year. Again, read about two per day leading