brilliance!” I will often ask students to create a tweet that summarizes the learning for the day. This is a great opportunity for students to work collaboratively with one another. Plus, students love using emojis and hashtags with this, so it really allows them the chance to write creatively. This is also a great way to teach clear and concise writing. Doing these with a pen and paper can also serve as a quick and easy exit ticket activity. (See Act 5: Sample Tweet.)

**Twitter Summary - Sample Tweet**

> **SAMPLE**  
> @sample  
> *Lord of the Flies - Chapter 11*  
> OMG! I can’t believe Roger killed Piggy! And what’s up w/ the savages? Don’t they want 2 b rescued? #idiots #watch4fallingrocks

*Behind the Scenes Act 5: Sample Tweet*

Finally, I have learned over time that students *really* love to share these, so make sure you leave some time for them to present their tweets. And while this might seem like a simple assignment, it encompasses a wide range of skills including collaboration, summarization, concise writing, creativity, and public speaking.

**Instagram.** This is similar to the Twitter idea, only this one includes pictures (either taken on a phone or hand-drawn) to support the caption. Students take pride in doing these, so don’t hesitate to hang these up in your room or the hallway. You will be amazed at how something as simple as displaying student work can positively impact the classroom environment. And if you have visual learners, let them summarize an assignment in this visual way to differentiate the learning.