3. After assessing the work of two classmates, students return to their desks to read the comments made regarding their projects.
4. After reading the comments, students write a self-assessment (on the same sheet that their peers commented on) where they explain why they feel they deserve the score they gave themselves. I ask them to provide specific examples, both positive and negative, that show me why this project warrants the score it received.
5. Once they complete the score and the self-assessment, students write their names on the assessment sheet and turn it in.
6. The teacher then does a final assessment, adjusting any scores as needed.

One important point of distinction is to make sure you don’t confuse peer assessments with peer editing or peer grading. The peer review to self-assessment does not have students edit or grade their peers’ work, but rather has them comment on the content of the work. So rather than focusing on the small details (punctuation, spelling) like peer edits often do, peer reviews instead comment on the big details (organization, flow). From my experience, feedback like this about a paper is much more powerful than random marks written on a paper.

The peer review to self-assessment is a great classroom management tool in that it allows students to be involved in the grading process in a self-paced manner. Depending on the size of the project, I usually allow about five minutes per review, and then add an additional five minutes for the self-assessment. All told, if you