can enhance the topic at hand. Plus, drawing can calm a class down in a way that is engaging and fun.

- **TAKE A SELFIE.** Students love taking selfies, so find a way to use this to your advantage! Birthday selfies (with me and the person celebrating the birthday) have become a regular part of my class routine, and students really enjoy the recognition. Additionally, there are lots of other ways to incorporate selfies into the classroom that will help foster a strong relationship with your students. Snap a selfie if you and a student happen to be dressed alike or if you’re wearing similar Halloween costumes. Use selfies as part of a BINGO game. Plus, selfies can easily be printed and hung around the room. Selfies are an easy way to connect with your students in a silly, yet harmless, manner.

**A BLUEPRINT FOR FULL IMPLEMENTATION**  
**Step 1: Look for ways to add fun into what you already do.**  
Having fun should be used to supplement the learning, not replace it. Too much fun is just as bad (if not worse) as not enough. No need to create hour-long sessions of fun; instead, find a spot or two every day where you can add in a little more amusement.  
**Step 2: Incorporate new activities into your class.**  
A few ideas that work with any grade or subject include:  
- A quick YouTube video can spice up any lesson (see Hack 5).  
- Review games always get students fired up. And try to go beyond the traditional “Jeopardy” review. Pictionary, Kahoot, charades, and any game that involves shooting a