# CLASSROOM MUSIC GAMES AND ACTIVITIES

This collection will help you teach music basics whether you have a music degree or no formal music training. Students will listen closely, identify musical notation and terms, recognize instruments, and more! Reinforce lessons from other subjects, such as language arts and critical thinking, with cross-curricular elements. As students grasp the basics, you can move on to activities that are more difficult or adapt the activities to include new material.

The activities in this book can get your students up and moving or provide them with fun ways to work at their desks. Mix and match whole-class, group, and individual activities to create entertaining lesson plans, and watch your students have a blast learning music basics!

## OTHER PRODUCTS THAT WILL BRING MUSIC INTO YOUR CLASSROOM:

### Teaching Music to Children
90/1060LE • This valuable resource gives elementary teachers with no formal music training all the tools needed to help students develop an understanding of and appreciation for music. The lessons and reproducible games, worksheets and puzzles follow a well-sequenced curriculum based on the National Standards for Music Education in the United States and the Ontario Curriculum for the Arts in Canada. The mixed-media CD features over 60 minutes of music and a PowerPoint presentation.

### Music Libs
30/2631H • Here’s a creative way to bring the fun of the classic grammar game Mad Libs™ into your music classroom. Dianne Campbell has created twenty-one improvisational stories about music that are sure to have your students laughing out loud while they review basic parts of speech and music vocabulary. Grab your (plural noun) and (plural noun) and get ready for some fun!

### Daily Transition Music
99/2438LE • Make the switch between classroom subjects or daily activities fun and efficient. Play the music to alert children of a transition, allowing them time to prepare both mentally and physically for the next task. Transition tunes include music for Starting the Day, Getting Organized, Reading, Starting a New Activity, Cleaning Up, and more! The CD has both short and extended versions of each transition tune.

Lorenz  
Lorenz Educational Press  
Milliken Publishing Company  
Teaching and Learning Company  
Show What You Know® Publishing  
LEP interactive  

ISBN 978-0-7877-1088-0  
ELE90/1098i