# Music Mind Benders

## Difficult

1. A young apprentice slowly approached the great songwriter, who was writing furiously on the paper in front of him. The apprentice said, “Excuse me, sir, but we need to be leaving for the performance now.” The songwriter, still scribbling away, said, “No, no, I need it much louder.” The apprentice, slightly confused, hesitated a moment before shouting, **“EXCUSE ME, SIR, BUT WE NEED TO BE LEAVING FOR THE PERFORMANCE NOW!”** The songwriter was so startled by his apprentice that he nearly fell out of his chair.

   If the songwriter asked the apprentice to be louder, why was he so surprised?

2. Use the following facts to determine a common musical term:
   - The word HATS has one of the same letters, and it is in the correct place in the word.
   - The word NAIL has one of the same letters, and it is also in the correct place.
   - The word HOPE has two of the same letters, both of which are in the correct place.
   - The word CASH has none of the same letters as the word.

   What is the term?

3. Eliza and her sister decided to drive to Winnipeg, Canada to hear a popular blues group perform in concert. They lived in Seattle, Washington, and thought it would be best to drive north into Canada and then head directly east to Winnipeg. Eliza knew that the speed limits around Seattle were 70 miles per hour, but she was very surprised to see that in Canada, the speed limits were posted at 90! A little hesitant to drive so quickly, Eliza set the cruise control at 75 miles per hour. They had plenty of time to get to the concert hall, so she was not worried.

   After about half an hour on the road in Canada, Eliza noticed the flashing lights of a police car pulling her over. The police officer approached her vehicle, and Eliza explained that she thought the speed limit in that area was 90. He said that she was correct, but he gave her the ticket anyway. Why?

More mind benders are available in *Music Mind Benders*, Heritage Music Press, 2009.

18                                      Whole-Class Activities                                      90/1098LE