# Music Mind Benders

## Medium

1. Typically, the rehearsal comes before the performance, and the performance will be followed by an encore. In what place does rehearsal come after performance and encore?

2. Four members of the band’s woodwind section are sitting in a circle to begin tuning. Using the clues below, figure out whether Christine, Ben, Dora, or Dylan plays the oboe.
   - In the circle, the two boys sit directly across from each other.
   - Dora’s instrument does not require a reed.
   - The person sitting to the left of Dylan plays an instrument that begins with the same letter as her first name.
   - The person sitting across from Ben plays the saxophone.

3. Jimmy works at a music store. In one shipment he receives three boxes of mouthpieces, labeled **TUBA MOUTHPIECES**, **TRUMPET MOUTHPIECES**, and **TUBA AND TRUMPET MOUTHPIECES**, respectively. He knows that all of the boxes are incorrectly labeled. Jimmy needs to fix the labels and can pick only one mouthpiece from one box. Which box should he pick from and how will he know how to correctly label the boxes?

4. The crazy new orchestra director has mixed up all of the instruments and put them in new sections. In the new orchestra:
   - Clarinets are found in the brass section
   - Violins are found in the percussion section
   - Tubas are found in the woodwind section
   - Flutes are found in the brass section
   - Snare drums are found in the string section

   In this new orchestra, where are the cellos found?

90/1098LE                                      Whole-Class Activities                                      17