Name  
Date  

# Can You Handel It?

## GEORGE FRIDERIC HANDEL (1685-1759)

One of the most famous Baroque composers, George Frideric Handel (George FREE-der-ich HAHN-dul) was one of the first composers who was able to make a living solely as a composer.

Born in Germany in 1685, Handel was trained as an organist and worked as a choir master there before moving to London, England, when he was 25. Handel loved England and stayed there for the rest of his life. (He’s even buried at Westminster Abbey, an honor reserved for only the most famous Brits.)

Although he wrote a lot of instrumental music and vocal solos, Handel’s first musical love was opera. He wrote more than 40 of them, but unfortunately the kind of operas that he liked to write—more serious operas in an Italian style called *opera seria*—were becoming less and less popular with the English people. Problem was, Handel was living a very extravagant life and composing was his only job. He needed a hit, and quick.

Handel found his “hit” in the form of oratorios. Oratorios (awr-uh-TAWR-ee-ohs) are extended choral works about a religious subject that have an orchestral accompaniment. They are like operas in that they tell a story with song and there are characters, but unlike opera, the performers don’t wear costumes and they don’t act out the story. The most famous of Handel’s oratorios is *Messiah*, which is often performed around Christmas and includes one of the most famous pieces of classical music—“Hallelujah Chorus.”

76 Reproducible  
Composers  
90/1098LE