# Who's Who at the Zoo?

Begin a discussion about the ways music can often capture the images and sounds of familiar things, such as a stormy night, a spring day, or even animals in nature. Ask the students, “If you were a composer and you were going to compose a song about fish in the seas, how would that music sound? Would it be loud and fast, or flowing and perhaps soft? Could it be suddenly playful, like a fish jumping around and skipping with the waves?”

Divide the class into small groups. In a container, place the following animal names on separate folded sheets of paper:

ELEPHANT, MONKEY, GIRAFFE, LION, BIRD, SWAN, SEAL, BEAR

Have each group pick one animal and answer the following questions. If possible, have one student take notes for the group.

1. What noise, if any, does my animal make? A roar? A chirp? A unique sound?
2. Is the noise loud or soft?
3. Is the noise long or short, or a quick, repeated pattern?
4. Is the noise a high or low sound – or somewhere in between?
5. Is my animal big, medium-sized, or small?
6. Is my animal fast or slow-moving?
7. Where does my animal live? In big, broad spaces? In the trees? In the water?

Now ask the students to imagine they are composing a piece about their animal. Ask them to answer the following questions:

1. Would my piece be mostly loud or soft?
2. Would my piece be mostly fast, slow, or at a medium speed?
3. Would my piece be playful, dreamy, mysterious, or even scary?

Ask your students to title their song to match the musical picture they would like to paint. For example:  
*The Laughing Monkeys, Elephant Safari, The Bellow of the Bear*

**BONUS ACTIVITY**

Play a recording for the class of Camille Saint-Saëns’s *Carnival of the Animals*. Ask them to draw a picture of the animal they imagine as they listen to each musical selection.

This can also be paired with the *Carnival of the Animals* Seek and Find on pages 72–73.

90/1098LE  
Small Group Activities  
29

---

# Found Sounds

This activity helps students practice their listening skills by using items commonly found in the classroom or around the home.

Divide the class into teams, and have each team sit together, facing in one direction, with their eyes closed. Stand behind the students, and make a sound with your first sound-maker (see below for suggestions). Hide the sound-maker, and have students open their eyes. Encourage the teams to talk about the sound they heard and determine how it was produced. Allow each team one guess; each correct guess is awarded a point. The team with the most points at the end of the game wins!

**Suggested Sound-Makers**  
- Shaking coins in a can  
- Snapping a rubber band  
- Flipping the pages of a book  
- Scraping fingernails on a chalkboard  
- Squeaking a marker on a shiny surface  
- Typing on a keyboard  

# Using Your Senses

Before the activity, fill a bag with fairly common musical items that have different textures.

**Suggested Items**  
- Instrument mouthpiece  
- Reed  
- Tuning fork  
- Mallets/drumsticks  
- Guitar pick  
- Whistle  
- Egg shaker  
- Recorder  

Divide the class into groups of two to three. Take the mystery bag to each team, and have all students in that team reach in and feel as many items as they can. After all groups have had a chance to explore the bag, take turns asking each team for one item that they thought was in the bag. After a few rounds of guessing, reveal the contents of the mystery bag.

30  
Small Group Activities  
90/1098LE