# My Many Musical Hats—The Game

To begin, have each student create a paper hat. Provide help when needed. Directions for making a simple hat are found on the next page.

Each student will also need a card with a musical term or instrument on it. Sample cards are provided on pages 44–45. You can make copies of the sample cards, or you can have each student make a card on a small piece of paper. If the students create cards, ask them to put their names on the back, and then collect the cards.

Select a few students to help demonstrate the activity before beginning with the rest of the class. To play, place a card in the brim of each student’s hat so that it is easily seen by the rest of the class. Do not let the students see the card in their own hats, and make sure students do not get the cards they created.

Divide the class into small groups of three to four students. Tell the students that the category of the card set is “Musical Terms and Instruments.” You can also separate the cards to create two sets (one musical terms set and one musical instruments set).

The object of the activity is for each student to identify the card in his or her hat by asking questions. Each student must ask a classmate a ‘yes’ or ‘no’ question about the card. This can be a simple question such as:

- Am I an instrument?  
- Am I a woodwind?  
- Am I a musical note?  

For example:  
Category—Musical Terms and Instruments  
John (eighth note pair): Am I a musical instrument?  
Peter (clarinet): No. Am I a woodwind?  
John (eighth note pair): Yes.

Students then move on to another classmate.

Once the students believe they know the identities of their cards, they may ask a student to confirm (“Am I a musical staff?”). This game can easily be repeated by mixing up the cards and redistributing them.

42 Small Group Activities 90/1098LE