# We Go Together

Make enough copies of the instrument or notation cards on the following pages so that each student in your class will get one card. Mix up the cards and pass out one to each student. The object of the game is for the students to group themselves together according to the pictures on their cards. Announce the groups that they are to form (suggested groups are listed below). When everyone has found a place, ask the students in each group to name the instruments on their cards.

## Suggested Groupings:
- Strings/Percussion/Wind
- Brass/Woodwinds
- Played with a Bow/Plucked
- Reed/No Reed
- Slide/Valves
- Notes/Rests
- Line Notes/Space Notes

> **Note:** For some of these suggestions, not all of the cards will belong in the given groups. In these cases, take one of the following steps:
> - Collect the cards and pass out only the ones that will apply to the next grouping.
> - Create another group to be included.
> - Create a none-of-the-above/does-not-apply group.

You can also use this activity to incorporate the use of Venn diagrams into your lesson. Place several pairs of hula-hoops or taped circles on the floor in the pattern of a simple Venn diagram. Designate each hoop as a particular category, and have the students physically form the Venn diagrams by separating into the hoops according to the cards.

## Suggested Groupings:
- Plucked/Four Strings
- Pitched/Has Strings
- Mouthpiece/Woodwind
- Notes/Two Beats
- Rests/Four Beats
- Space Notes/Whole Notes
- Notes/One Beat

90/1098LE Whole-Class Activities 19