# School Spirit

Nations around the world have a national anthem, or song. It typically describes the history and traditions of the nation and its people. Many states also have an official song. Your school may even have its own song!

Talk about the purpose of a national anthem or school song. Have the students heard any before? Do they know the national anthem? Play a variety of national anthems and school songs. You may want to provide a page with lyrics for each group or student (“The Star-Spangled Banner” and “O, Canada” are provided on the next two pages).

What types of characteristics would students want other people to hear about when listening to a song for their own school? Talk about the history, events, or characteristics that could be included, such as when the school was established, the school mascot, classroom subjects, etc.

Let your students’ school spirit shine by having them create their own school song. Divide the class into teams, and provide each team with markers and large sheets of paper. If your school already has a song, share it with the class. You can then have the students write a new verse for the song, or have them write a song about your class.

Ask students to write the song so that it can be hung on the wall. If there is time, have them illustrate their song lyrics on the paper as well. After all teams have finished their songs, display them around the room. Give each team a chance to present and explain their song to the rest of the class.

STATE

26 Small Group Activities 90/1098LE