# Getting into Groups

## ANIMAL NOISES

As people arrive, give each student a slip with an animal’s name on it, or whisper it in his or her ear. Use as many different animals as you need teams. Tell everyone to make the animal sound at the same time. Students must try to find the others in their group just by following the sounds.

## BIRTHDAYS

Tell everyone to find all the other people who have the same birth month. (It can get loud at this point!) When it seems that most people have found their groups, call out “Where is the group with the January birthdays?” Continue with each month of the year until you have all of the months that are represented. Do this to make sure that all groups are together and not fragmented.

Instruct each group to make up a song (15 to 30 seconds long) that represents their shared birth month. Allow no more than five minutes for this. Have each group present the results of their teamwork.

## HUMDINGERS

Determine how many teams you need. Give each player a strip of paper that has a childhood song on it, or you can whisper the name of the song in each person’s ear. Some examples are “Happy Birthday,” “Mary Had a Little Lamb,” “Row, Row, Row Your Boat,” and “Twinkle, Twinkle Little Star.” Everyone hums or sings his or her song and forms a group with all people that have the same song. Use this to get groups together for a game, or make it into a game and the first team to have all of its members together wins.

24 Small Group Activities 90/1098LE