# M-U-S-I-C

Write each music term below on a separate piece of paper and place it into a hat or bowl. You may want to replace terms that younger students do not know or add terms that older students have learned. If possible, find sound clips to represent any instruments you have used. Have the clips ready when you begin the game.

- Accordion
- Bell
- Cello
- Chimes
- Clarinet
- Crescendo
- Decrescendo
- Eighth notes
- Flat
- Flute
- Gong
- Guitar
- Half note
- Metronome
- Piano
- Quarter note
- Saxophone
- Sharp
- Snare drum
- Staff
- Triangle
- Trombone
- Trumpet
- Tuba
- Violin
- Whistle
- Whole note
- Xylophone

Print out enough copies of the M-U-S-I-C board on page 7 for each student to have one. Have each student mark the center space as “Rest.” They should draw a rest symbol and write the word on the blank. This will be a free space.

Then, have the students fill in their M-U-S-I-C boards with the music terms you placed in the hat. Each box should have one word written on the blank (not all terms will be used). Students should also draw the term they have selected in the box (if possible).

Provide the students with a handful of small candies, paper clips, or other markers.

Pull a term out of the hat. Then, call out the term, play its sound clip, or show the students an image of it. Have the students mark off each term as it comes up. The first student to get five terms in a row (horizontally, vertically, or diagonally) is the winner!

22  
Whole-Class Activities  
90/1098LE