# Splat!

Gather a variety of sound clips that represent a musical instrument. Find the instruments in the game cards from *We Go Together* on page 20 or *My Many Musical Hats* on page 45, or create your own cards. Tape each card to the board or to a blank wall in a random fashion. Make sure the cards are at least a few inches apart. Also, create a place on the board to keep score for each team.

Divide the class into teams of four to five, and provide each team with a fly swatter. Tape a line on the floor for each team to gather around, but make sure these lines are equally close to the cards. Have each team select a person to hold the fly swatter first.

Play a sound clip from your collection. Each team decides which instrument the sound clip came from, and the team member holding the fly swatter runs to the cards and SPLATs the correct instrument with the fly swatter. The first team to SPLAT! the correct answer gets a point. Then, have the students with the fly swatter pass it to a teammate, and begin a new round. The team with the most points when all of the clips have been played is the winner!

For younger students, write the numbers 1–9 on index cards. Have the students maintain a steady beat by marching in place. Clap a rhythm with no more than nine beats. Each team decides how many beats were in the given rhythm, and the team member holding the fly swatter runs to the cards and SPLATs the correct number.

For older students, write the names of composers on index cards. Give the students a fact about a composer. Each team decides which composer the fact belongs to, and the team member holding the fly swatter runs to the cards and SPLATs the correct person. For ideas of composers or facts to use, look at the following activities: *La Mer*, *Carnival of the Animals*, *Composer Connect the Dots*, *A Very Verdi Day*, *Can You Handel It?*, *Musician Portrait Gallery*, and *Crack the Code*.

32 Small Group Activities 90/1098LE