# Pin the Note on the Staff

This activity will give your students practice with both the placement of notes on the musical staff and spelling.

Divide the class into multiple teams, and provide each team with tape and a copy of the next page. Have the students cut out the whole notes and place a piece of tape on the back of each one. While the students move to their assigned groups and get the notes ready, create a musical staff on the board for each team. Make sure they are a good distance from each other so the teams have enough room.

> Note: If you plan to use this activity multiple times, make a few copies of the next page on cardstock, cut out the notes, and laminate them so you can use them more than once.

Begin by selecting a word for each team. This can be the same word or a unique word for each team (make sure they have the same number of letters). Each team should discuss the word and decide how to spell it. Then, they will spell it on their musical staff. Letters that correspond to a note on the staff (A, B, C, D, E, F, G) will be "written" by placing a whole note in the appropriate location. Any other letters will be written out on the staff.

**Example:** To spell STAFF, write out the S and the T, and then place three whole notes next to them in the appropriate locations on the staff to finish spelling the word (A, F, and F).

The winner is the team that spells their word correctly and uses the whole notes when appropriate. If it is a tie, the team that finishes the fastest wins.

You can make the activity more challenging by turning it into a musical version of "Pin the Tail on the Donkey." Write out the letters that cannot be represented by notes on the staff, leaving enough space for the whole notes that will represent the other letters. Then, have each team blindfold one of their players and hand him or her a whole note with a piece of tape on the back. The team spins the player around twice and faces him or her toward the board. From this point on, the team may not touch the player. Team members must work together to give the player directions for placing the note correctly between the given letters and on the staff. If there is more than one letter missing, after the first note is placed, the next team member is blindfolded and given directions. The team that places their notes with the most accuracy is the winner.

38 Small Group Activities 90/1098LE