# Introduction

*Classroom Music Games & Activities* is a collection created to help you teach music basics whether you have a music degree or no formal music training. Students will listen closely, identify musical notation and terms, recognize instruments, and more!

Keep your students engaged with the material. Bring out their creative side when they create their own dance At the Hop, come up with a School Spirit song, and design an Album of the Year based on a musical style of their choice. Reinforce lessons from other subjects with the activities that provide cross-curricular elements, such as language arts and critical thinking. As students begin to grasp the basics, you can move on to activities that are more difficult or adapt the activities to include new material. Students will continue to be challenged throughout the year!

## WHOLE-CLASS ACTIVITIES

Get your students’ attention and keep them on the same page by using activities for the whole class. These activities are easy to organize and require few, if any, additional materials. Some activities include game cards that can be reproduced on card stock and even laminated to reduce wear and tear; it will also save you the time of having to copy them again for future games. Many of them can be played for multiple rounds to further increase their educational value.

## SMALL GROUP ACTIVITIES

Group and partner activities can be used to build cooperation and teamwork within your classroom. Putting students together that may not know each other very well and encouraging them to get to know their classmates can strengthen interpersonal communication skills, classroom cooperation, and perhaps even spark a new friendship. Use these activities multiple times and for multiple rounds to further increase their educational value.

## INDIVIDUAL ACTIVITIES

Use the reproducible worksheets to let students work and learn on their own. Many of the worksheets include all of the information the students need, such as terms, definitions, symbols, and biographies. Others will ask students to use the knowledge they already have and can be used to assess how well individuals understand the material.

The activities in this book can get your students up and moving or provide them with fun ways to work at their desks. Either way, their creativity and music knowledge will grow. Mix and match whole-class, group, and individual activities to create entertaining lesson plans, and watch as your students have a blast and reinforce music basics!

4 90/1098LE