# Classmate M-U-S-I-C

Reproduce one copy of the grid on the next page. Fill the center of each square with a musical skill (see below for suggestions). Be sure to leave the bottom line in each square blank. Reproduce enough completed grids for each student, and pass them out to the class. The object of the game is for the students to collect one signature of a classmate that can complete that skill in each square.

Allow the students to have plenty of time to mingle and find classmates to sign their grids. Have students gather enough signatures to fill the entire grid or just enough to make a vertical, horizontal, or diagonal line. If possible, students should not have the same classmate sign their grids more than once. Show the students an example of the grid so they can see what they are trying to achieve. The first student to get enough names is the winner! Make yourself available to answer any of the students’ questions (“Is this answer correct?,” “Do I have enough signatures?”).

## BACK TO SCHOOL

At the beginning of the school year, fill the center of each square with a musical skill that students may have when starting the class (examples are given below). You can make a board unique to your class by asking students what musical talents they have and using those answers to create the board.

| Plays an instrument<br>Katie | Can whistle<br>Matthew | Sings in a choir<br>Erica | Can beatbox<br>Nicholas | Listens to classical music<br>Brian |
|------------------------------|------------------------|---------------------------|-------------------------|-------------------------------------|
| Has taken a dance class<br> | Wants to be in a band<br>Jamie | Can do the Twist<br> | Can hum the theme song to a game show<br> | Takes piano lessons<br>Megan |

## SHOW WHAT YOU KNOW

Throughout the school year, test students’ knowledge by playing Classmate M-U-S-I-C again. Fill the center of each square with an academic skill from a recent lesson or subject in class (examples are listed in the box below).

| Can name two string instruments<br>Bradley | Can draw a quarter note<br> | Knows two music styles<br> | Can draw a treble clef<br>Kylie | Can explain what a conductor does<br>Elliot |
|------------------------------------------|----------------------------|---------------------------|-------------------------------|--------------------------------------------|
| Can name the notes on the staff<br> | Knows what ♩ means<br>Jennifer | Can demonstrate pianissimo<br> | Knows three brass instruments<br> | Knows four instrument families<br>Sarah |

6  
Whole-Class Activities  
90/I098LE