# At the Hop

Recreate a sock hop by playing a few songs from the early rock era (such as *The Twist* and *Jailhouse Rock*). Find examples of classic dance moves, such as the Mashed Potato and the Sprinkler, on the Internet, teach them to the class, and have a dance contest.

The students can then form small groups and create a dance about something in their daily lives to another song from the 1950s and 60s or to a song from today. For example, the School Bus could start with a walk forward (the movement of the bus) followed by the extension of the right arm (the bus’s stop sign being released).

# Draw the Music

Play a recording of a selected piece of music that does not have any lyrics (or has lyrics in a different language). Classical, jazz, bluegrass, new age, and opera are all great music styles to choose from, and many free clips can be found on the Internet. Feel free to choose any piece of music, but do not tell your students the name of the chosen piece. Play the recording for your students. As the music plays, challenge the students to sit quietly and listen to it carefully.

Provide each student with a piece of paper and drawing materials. As they listen through the music a second time, have the students draw the picture that the music creates in their minds. What do they think of when they hear the music? Does the music remind them of a certain time or place? Have each student present his or her drawing and explain it to the class. At the end of the activity, tell the students the name of the selected music.

90/1098LE Whole-Class Activities 9