# My Favorite Musician

Have students show their appreciation for their favorite musicians or bands by creating a fact basket in their honor!

Each student will need:
- A piece of 11" x 17" paper
- A 1" x 17" strip of paper
- Markers, crayons, or colored pencils
- Scissors
- A glue stick
- Magazines from which to cut images and words
- A blank sheet of paper

Show students how to create the basket and then let them create their own! Be available in case students need assistance creating their baskets.

First, cut a piece of 11" x 17" paper in half, long ways, to create two strips that are each 5 1/2" x 17". Then, fold each piece in half widthwise. Lay one piece on top of the other so they line up exactly, and round off the corners of the open end with scissors.

Open the two pieces and lay them one on top of the other, so they form an X. Fold up the lower half of the bottom strip, place a little glue on the strip you just folded, and then fold up the lower half on the top piece. Turn over the basket and glue those sides together. Be careful not to glue the basket closed.

Have students write their names on one side of the 1" x 17" strip. Then, attach it to their baskets to create a handle. (Be sure they attach it name-side down.) Now their baskets are ready to decorate!

Students should think about their favorite musician or band. Have them cut the blank piece of paper into small pieces and write a fact about the musician or band on each strip. Then, have students color the basket with crayons or markers, or glue on words or pictures they cut out of magazines. When they are done decorating the baskets, they can place the facts into it.

When the baskets are finished, display them in your classroom. Ask the students to guess their classmates’ favorite musicians and bands from the facts in the baskets.

8 Whole-Class Activities 90/1098LE