# Answer Key

## Page 16 – Music Mind Benders (Easy)

Note: Some puzzles could have additional (and often very creative) answers.

1. The letter A.
2. ONE MUSIC WORD
3. 7 minutes—just have all of the flute players play at the same time!
4. The man with the stick was the conductor; Elizabeth was a drummer in the orchestra.
5. Andy was now in second place.

## Page 17 – Music Mind Benders (Medium)

1. In the dictionary
2. Ben plays the oboe. We see that Ben and Dylan sit across from each other, and Christine is to the left of Dylan. Christine plays the clarinet (both start with a C), Dora plays the flute (no reed), Dylan plays the saxophone (across from Ben), and Ben is left with the oboe.
3. Jimmy should pick one mouthpiece from the TUBA AND TRUMPET MOUTHPIECE box. Because he knows the box is labeled incorrectly, the mouthpiece he pulls out will be the correct box label. For example, if he pulled a tuba mouthpiece out of the box, he would label the box TUBA MOUTHPIECES. Now he would find the box originally labeled TUBA MOUTHPIECES and label it TRUMPET MOUTHPIECES. The last box would be changed to TUBA AND TRUMPET MOUTHPIECES.
4. The instruments and their sections have been switched in pairs. Woodwinds and brasswinds are flipped, and strings and percussion are flipped. Therefore, cellos would be found in the percussion section.

## Page 18 – Music Mind Benders (Difficult)

1. The songwriter was writing a song, and when he said “I need it much louder,” he was referring to the song he was working on. The songwriter was startled because he wasn’t actually speaking to the apprentice. Perhaps using a dynamic would have avoided all of the confusion!
2. The word is NOTE. Since none of the letters in the word CASH are used, the T is the only letter that can be used from the word HATS. Because T is the third letter, and H is in CASH, the only two letters left to be used in HOPE are the O and the E. The only other letter left is the first letter, which will be the N in NAIL.
3. Canada uses the metric system, so the speed limit was 90 kilometers per hour and not 90 miles per hour. 90 kilometers per hour is a little more than 55 mph, so at 75 mph Eliza was definitely speeding.

## Pages 35–36 – Sudoku for Two

Puzzle 1

Puzzle 2

## Page 50 – Music Scramble

Music Word: NOTE  
Other words will vary.

86                                                                 Answer Key                                                                 90/1098LE