# Partner and Group Selection for Small Group Activities

The following activities require partners or groups. Choosing partners and groups for these activities is very important. Putting students together that would not normally associate with each other is a great way for them to get to know the other members of their class. Be sure to use a selection method that will combine students in a non-biased manner.

This method is sure to integrate your student groups and will let them have a little fun at the same time. Have the class line up according to any of these parameters:

1. Alphabetical by last name
2. Alphabetical by first name
3. Birth date
4. Height
5. Alphabetical by the name of the street on which they live
6. Numerical order by street address
7. Numerical order by last four digits of their phone number
8. Numbers drawn from a hat

Feel free to choose your own criteria, but keep in mind that separating students by reasons such as gender or ethnicity could have a negative impact on the groups and should be avoided.

After the students are lined up according to the selected criteria, have each student count off in the number of desired groups. For example, if you would like the class to be divided into five groups, the first student in the row would say “One” aloud, followed by the second student with “Two,” etc. After the fifth student says “Five,” the counting starts over again with the next student saying “One.” Continue counting until all students have a number. Students with the same number will make up a group.

Other ideas for making groups can be found on the next page. They can also be used as class activities.

90/1098LE Small Group Activities 23