# What’s the Order?

Divide the class into groups of four to eight students. Have each group create a rhythm using notes and rests that they have already learned. These could include, but are not limited to, the following:

The rhythms should use the same number of symbols as students in a group. Once a rhythm has been created, each symbol should be written on a separate piece of paper.

Select one group to begin the game. Have each student hold one of the group’s symbols and line up next to each other at the front of the room in the order of their rhythm.

Give the rest of the class a few seconds to study the order in which the group has lined up. Then, have the class clap the rhythm together.

Now, have the selected group go out into the hallway and rearrange the order in which they are standing. When the group is ready, bring them back into the classroom. Have the rest of the students try to put the group back in its original order using musical vocabulary words. Encourage the students to raise their hands, and select one student to give a direction:

“The quarter note should be before the whole note.”  
“The quarter rest should be last.”

> Note: If some of the symbols are used more than once, only the symbols need to be in the correct order, not the people holding the symbols.

After the correct rhythm has been restored, allow one member of the first group to choose the next group to line up.

To make this activity more challenging, when the group goes into the hallway, have them trade symbols rather than just rearrange themselves. This way, the students have to pay attention to the order of the notes and rests rather than the people.

14 Whole-Class Activities 90/1098LE