# What Am I?

Create several lists of clues about the identity of a mystery musical object, similar to the example given below. Make sure to order the lists from general to specific. You can also use the objects and clues that are provided on the next page.

To play, begin by asking the students to number a blank sheet of paper from one to five. Read the first clue aloud to the students. Give each team 30 seconds to take a guess at the mystery object based on this first clue only and write it on the first line of their papers. The clues are given in order from general to specific, so it is unlikely a team will know the answer after the first clue (although they can guess anything that fits the clue).

After all teams have written an answer, read the first clue and the second clue aloud. Have the teams write down another guess on the second line based on the information from both clues. This can be the same answer they wrote on the first line or a completely different answer—that is up to the team.

Continue in this way until all clues from the set have been read aloud. Then ask the class, “What am I?” After the answer has been announced, determine the winning team by reviewing the students’ papers. The team that wrote the correct answer after the fewest clues is the winner!

## EXAMPLE:

1. I am a musical instrument.  
2. I am part of the orchestra.  
3. I am played using a mouthpiece.  
4. I am a brass instrument.  
5. I use a slide to change notes.  

| Team 1 Answers | Team 2 Answers |
|----------------|----------------|
| Xylophone      | Trumpet        |
| Xylophone      | Trumpet        |
| Flute          | Trumpet        |
| Trombone       | Trumpet        |
| Trombone       | Trombone       |

**ANSWER:** I am a trombone.  
**Winner:** Team 1  

40  
Small Group Activities  
90/1098LE