Name_________________________ Date _________________

# Crack the Code (cont'd)

Fateandthewritings of the Russian author and ↓ poet Pushkin, ○ became ○ central ↓, ↓ themes in ↓ Tchaikovsky’s compositions. His opera, *Eugene Onegin* and ↓ his ↓ exquisite Fifth Symphony ○ illustrate his ↓ resignation before the whims of fate.

In 1878, ○ Tchaikovsky began spending ↓ most of his ○ time ↓ abroad, ○ taking in the national moods in Switzerland, France, and Italy, and blending them into his works. In 1880, he ↓ composed the *1812 Overture* to commemorate the historic defeat of ↓ Napoleon’s army. The first performance of the overture took place in Moscow, and Tchaikovsky had wanted to have all the church bells in the city peal out in the grand finale. The city fathers refused, and he had to be content with the tower bells in the cathedral in which the concert took place. The grand work was an immediate popular success. Tchaikovsky was obviously wrong in his assessment of this work when he commented that it was “loud and noisy and probably artistically worthless.”

By 1891, Peter Tchaikovsky became increasingly fearful and depressed and eventually died in St. Petersburg from cholera in 1893.

## QUESTIONS:

1. In which conservatory did Tchaikovsky first study? _________________________________

2. This overture-fantasy took ten years for Tchaikovsky to complete, but in its final form it became one of his most successful works. _________________________________________________________

3. What was Tchaikovsky’s brother and future biographer’s name? _________________________

4. Tchaikovsky never met his patroness, Nadezhda von Meck, but they corresponded continually over ______________ years, even when they lived in the same city.

5. What was the name of Tchaikovsky’s last symphony? __________________________________

6. In 1891, Tchaikovsky undertook his first and only voyage to ____________________________ and was received with honors.

90/1098LE Composers Reproducible 79