# Music Mind Benders

*Easy*

Getting your students excited about class can be a difficult task. How do you motivate them to buckle down and focus on the daily activities? Begin the class or rehearsal with a brain-stretching logic puzzle or wheel-turning brainteaser. Solve the problem as a whole class, allowing students to provide ideas and work out the problems together.

There are three pages with mind benders. The first page is the easy level, the second page is the medium level, and the third page is the hard level. Answers are provided at the back of the book, but let your students be creative; they may find other answers that work.

1. I occur once in an orchestra, twice in a jazz band, and never in a woodwind quintet. What am I?
2. Rearrange the letters in **WONDROUS MICE** to make one music word.
3. If it takes one flute player seven minutes to play a particular piece of music, how long will it take 10 flute players to play the same piece of music?
4. Elizabeth watched the man in front of her intently. The man was holding a long stick and was waving it around. Elizabeth herself was holding two sticks, both of which were bigger than the one being waved at her by the man. Yet Elizabeth followed the man’s every direction, not daring to disobey him. Who was this man?
5. Andy was competing in a guitar-playing contest against several other students from schools around the state. On his turn, he stepped up to the microphone and played a short, fast rock-and-roll piece. The judges gave him a score that put him in third place. On his next turn, Andy played a smooth jazz piece that wowed the judges. His new score allowed him to overtake the guitarist in second place. In what place was Andy now in?

16 Whole-Class Activities 90/1098LE