# Music Facts Finger Fun

Reproduce enough games for your classroom (games are provided on the next three pages), and allow your students to color their own Finger Fun games. When the students have finished coloring, have them cut the game out on the dotted line. Students will now have a square.

Demonstrate how to fold the games to the class by following the instructions below.

1. With the paper upside down, fold it along the diagonal and crease. Then open it back up. Fold along the opposite diagonal and crease. Open it back up. Fold the paper in half along a straight edge and crease. Open it back up. Turn the paper 90 degrees, fold it in half again, and crease. Open it back up. You should now have a flat piece of paper with the creases forming a star in the center of the page.

2. Take one corner and fold it in to the center of the star. Repeat with each corner. When you are done, you will have a six-inch square, with four open flaps on the top.

3. Turn the piece of paper over. Take one corner and fold it in to the center of star. Repeat with each corner.

4. Flip the paper over so that the top side has square flaps. Fold the paper in half along a straight edge and crease. Open it back up. Turn the paper 90 degrees, fold it in half again, and crease. There are now two square flaps on each side of the game.

5. With the crease at the bottom, insert your thumbs under each of the two flaps facing you. Insert your index fingers under the flaps directly opposite your thumbs. As you pinch your fingertips together and push them towards each other, the game will take shape.

To work the game, put your fingers back in the flaps. Pinch your thumb and index fingers together, then gently pull apart to open the center. Then bring the four fingers back together. Pinch together the two index fingers and the two thumbs. Gently pull apart to open the center.

Before beginning the game, make copies of the spinner below for students to use. You may want to enlarge it to 150% on a copier. To make the arrow (spinner), unfold a paper clip and place an end over the center of the spinner. Place a pencil on the center point and spin the paper clip.

1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8  
A B C D

More Finger Fun games are available in *Music Facts Finger Fun!*, Madison Street, a Lorenz company, 2008.

46 Small Group Activities 90/1098LE