# Follow the Conductor

Begin the activity by defining and discussing the role of the conductor. A conductor is the leader of an orchestra or band. He or she helps all the musicians not only stay together and play on the same beat, but the conductor also leads the musicians to play with the same musical expressions.

Ask your students if they’ve ever seen a conductor conduct before. You may want to find a clip of a conductor, such as Gustavo Dudamel, in action and show it to the class. What did they notice?

The conductor uses his or her hands, arms, whole body, and even facial expressions to convey to the orchestra how a piece should be played. Sometimes the conductor uses a baton. He or she cues the orchestra when to come in, how fast or slow to play, how softly or loudly to play, when to slow down a little, when to speed up, or when to cut off (stop playing). Their gestures can also convey to the orchestra how to create a certain musical mood with their playing—perhaps dreamy, perhaps exciting, perhaps playful and a little silly.

Using the song “Row, Row, Row Your Boat,” guide the students through this introduction to conducting:

1. First, have the entire class sing the song together. As they sing the song, conduct them at a familiar and moderate speed.
2. Now tell the class to watch you very closely. They need to become the “orchestra” as you conduct them in a very slow version of the song. Tell them to picture themselves trying to row a small boat against a very strong current. Just as the boat would move slowly against the current, the song will move slowly as well. As they sing, conduct the piece very slowly and broadly.
3. Have them watch you again as you conduct the piece at a very fast, but still singable tempo. This time they can imagine themselves guiding a speed boat in a race and winning first place.
4. Now they must watch you even more closely because the boat will vary in speed throughout the song. Conduct the piece, speeding up and slowing down as you go.
5. Ask for a student volunteer to conduct the class. Whisper to him or her the “Top-Secret Musical Instructions.” Tell the student to conduct the piece so that their performance will be very quiet and steady and see if the class can follow their gestures. Ask for additional volunteers and have them conduct the song with long pauses between each phrase.

Students may also create and conduct their own musical version of the song or choose another familiar tune to test their conducting skills with the class.

90/1098LE Whole-Class Activities 13