Name_________________________ Date_________________________

# Crack the Code

Read and study the composer biography and the notable compositions. Then, answer the questions. The answer to the first question is provided in the biography, but to answer the other questions, you will have to crack the code! When you find the first answer, use what is around it to help you figure out the code.

> Clue 1: The answers to the questions appear in order starting at the beginning of the biography.  
> Clue 2: Pay careful attention to the musical notes presented throughout the biography.

## PIOTR ILYICH TCHAIKOVSKY (1840–1893)

Toward the ♪ middle ♪ of the 19th century, countries began to celebrate their own heritage in the music written. In previous eras, ♪ music was thought to be very international; Italian operas was ♪ celebrated in Germany, and Austrian ♪ concertos ♪ were well-received in England. Around 1850, a nationalist movement took root in central Europe that highlighted both cultural and political differences among nations.

Piotr (Peter) Tchaikovsky said, “The ♪ Russian elements in my music are there because my childhood was imbued with the indescribable beauty of Russian ♪ folk ♪ music.” He was born in 1840, the son of a Russian engineer and a ♪ French ♪ mother. The ♪ family moved to St. Petersburg • when he was ten, ♪ and Peter was enrolled in a school that trained civil servants. By the age of 21, Tchaikovsky was ♪ justifiably ♪ unhappy with his bureaucratic ♪ life, so he enrolled ♪ in the new Moscow Conservatory and studied under Nikolay Rubinstein. ♪ The success of his first symphony encouraged him to • continue to compose.

Early in his career, Tchaikovsky was fortunate enough to attract the interest of a wealthy patroness and her support enabled him to devote ♪ himself ♪ to music. He wrote nine operas, four concertos, six symphonies, three ballets, string quartets, and many other songs and pieces for piano ♪ during this ♪ term. Later, when • this patronage was ♪ withdrawn, he was criticized for his refusal to embrace narrow Russian nationalist aims. Instead, he incorporated themes of Russian folklore and temperament into Western European forms and idioms. With his rich orchestrations, passionate lyricism, and extravagant emotionalism, Tchaikovsky became one of the world’s most popular classical composers.

♪ Peter ♪ Tchaikovsky was often moody and melancholy, and prone to ♪ fits of • depression. The • death of his ♪ beloved mother ♪ when he was 14 is said to have • been a trauma from which he never recovered. In 1877, he entered into a disastrous marriage with a student and soon thereafter fled to live in his brother’s house. Tchaikovsky never saw his wife again. Even when his personal life was in turmoil, he continued to compose. His first ballet, *Swan Lake*, was not an immediate success, but two ensuing ballet scores, *Sleeping Beauty* and *The Nutcracker*, were widely praised. All three works are still the cornerstones of classical ballet repertoire.

78 Reproducible Composers 90/1098LE