education in people’s lives: An Oxford handbook of music education, Volume 1 (pp. 163–186). Oxford University Press.  
Orzolek, D. C. (2021). Equity in music education: Programming and equity in ensembles: Students’ perceptions. *Music Educators Journal*, *107*(4), 42–44.  
Philpott, C ., & Wright, R . (2018). Teaching, learning, and curriculum content. In G. E. McPherson , & G. F. Welch (Eds.), *Music and music education in people’s lives: An Oxford handbook of music education, Volume 2* (pp. 222–240). Oxford University Press.  
Pike, G. O. (2016). *The past, present and future of music in education: A transdisciplinary framework designed to promote re-engagement and reform in music education for teachers, students, and the community* (Unpublished doctoral dissertation). Australian National University.  
Pitts, S. E. (2017). What is music education for? Understanding and fostering routes into lifelong musical engagement. *Music Education Research*, *19*(2), 160–168. https://doi.org/10.1080/14613808.2016.1166196  
Pogonowski, L . (1989). Metacognition: A dimension of musical thinking. In E. Boardman (Ed.), *Dimensions of musical thinking* (pp. 9–20). MENC - The National Association for Music Education.  
Richardson, C. P ., & Whitaker, N. P . (1992). Critical thinking and music education. In R. Colwell (Ed.), *Handbook of research on music teaching and learning* (pp. 546–560). Schirmer Books.  
Ritchhart, R ., Church, M ., & Morrison, K . (2011). *Making thinking visible: How to promote engagement, understanding, and independence for all learners*. John Wiley & Sons.  
Sindberg, L . (2009). The evolution of comprehensive musicianship through performance (CMP)—A model for teaching performing with understanding in the ensemble setting. *Contributions to Music Education* *36*(1), 25–39.  
Small, C . (1998). *Musicking: The meanings of performing and listening*. Wesleyan University Press.  
Smith, G. D. (2022). *A Philosophy of Playing Drum Kit: Magical Nexus*. Cambridge University Press.  
Tait, M ., & Haack, P . (1984). Principles and processes of music education. Teachers College Press.  
Thomas, R. B. (1970). Rethinking the curriculum. *Music Educators Journal*, *56*(6), 68–70.  
Tobias, E.S. (2015). Crossfading music education: Connections between secondary students’ in and out-of-school music experience. *International Journal of Music Education*, *33*(1), 18–35.  
Trilling, B ., & Fadel, C . (2009). *21st century skills: Learning for life in our times*. Wiley.  
Visser, J . (1999, April 19–23). Overcoming the underdevelopment of learning: A transdisciplinary view [Conference presentation]. Annual Meeting of the American Educational Research Association, Montreal, Quebec, Canada.  
Webster, P ., & Richardson, C. P . (1993). Asking children to think about music. *Arts Education Policy Review*, *94*, 7–11.  
Wells, G . (2000). Dialogic inquiry in education: Building on the legacy of Vygotsky. In C. D. Lee & P. Smagorinsky (Eds.), *Vygotskian perspectives on literacy research: Constructing meaning through collaborative inquiry* (pp. 51–85). Cambridge University Press.  
Wiggins, J . (2002). Teaching music through problem solving. In B. Hanley , & T. W. Goolsby (Eds.), *Musical understanding: Perspectives in theory and practice* (pp. 157–174). The Canadian Music Educators Association.