Barrett, J. R., & Veblen, K. K. (2018). Meaningful connections in a comprehensive approach to the music curriculum. In G. E. McPherson, & G. F. Welch (Eds.), *Music and music education in people’s lives: An Oxford handbook of music education, Volume 2* (pp. 141–159). Oxford University Press.

Beane, M. (1989). Focus on fine arts, ED 317 477. Educational Resources Information Center.

Benson, B. E. (2011). Phenomenology of music. In T. Gracyk & A. Kania (Eds.), *The Routledge companion to philosophy and music* (pp. 581–591). Routledge.

Bernard, C. F. (2023). Critical thinking, feeling, and action. In F. Abrahams (Ed.), *A music pedagogy for our time* (pp. 173–200). GIA Publications, Inc.

Boardman, E. (Ed.). (1989). *Dimensions of musical thinking*. MENC - The National Association for Music Education.

Brophy, T. S. (2000). *Assessing the developing child musician*. GIA Publications, Inc.

Burrack, F., & Parkes, K. A. (Eds.). (2018). *Applying Model Cornerstone Assessments in K–12 music: A research-supported approach*. Rowman & Littlefield.

Campbell, P. S., & Scott-Kassner, C. (2019). *Music in childhood enhanced: From preschool through the elementary grades*. Cengage Learning.

Charles, R. (1961). *Fifty-fifty United States*. Roncom Music Company.

Consortium of National Arts Education Associations. (1994). *National standards for arts education: What every young American should know and be able to do in the arts*. MENC - the National Association for Music Education.

DeTurk, M. (1989). Critical and creative thinking in music. In E. Boardman (Ed.), *Dimensions of musical thinking* (pp. 21–32). MENC.

Dewey, J. (1933). *How we think*. D.C.L. Heath.

Don, G., Garvey, C., & Sadeghpour, M. (2009). Theory and practice: Signature pedagogies in music theory and performance. In R. A. Gurung, N. L. Chick, & A. Haynie, A. (Eds.), *Exploring signature pedagogies: Approaches to teaching disciplinary habits of mind* (pp. 81–98). Stylus Publishing.

Drake, S., & Reid, J. (2021). Thinking now: Transdisciplinary thinking as a disposition. *Academia Letters*, 1–6.

Freire, P. (1970/2000). *Pedagogy of the oppressed*. Bloomsbury.

Gurung, R. A., Chick, N. L., & Haynie, A. (2009). *Exploring signature pedagogies: Approaches to teaching disciplinary habits of mind*. Stylus Publishing.

Harney, K. (2020). *Integrating music across the elementary curriculum*. Oxford University Press.

Hartenberger, A. (2008). Connecting assessments to standards through core conceptual competencies. In T. S. Brophy (Ed.), *Assessment in music education: Integrating curriculum, theory, and practice* (pp. 71–89). GIA Publications.

Hodges, D. A., & Grun, W. (2018). Implications of neurosciences and brain research for music teaching and learning. In G. E. McPherson, & G. F. Welch (Eds.), *Music and music education in people’s lives: An Oxford handbook of music education, Volume 1* (pp. 206–224). Oxford University Press.

Hoque, M. E. (2016). Three domains of learning: Cognitive, affective and psychomotor. *The Journal of EFL Education and Research*, *2*(2), 45–52.

Johnson, D. C., & Brophy, T. S. (2013). Critical thinking in music education. [Unpublished manuscript].

Johnson, D. C., & Brophy, T. S. (2014). A taxonomy of musical thinking. [Unpublished manuscript].

Krathwohl, D. R., Bloom, B. S., & Masia, B. B. (1973). *Taxonomy of educational objectives, the classification of educational goals. Handbook II: Affective domain*. David McKay Co., Inc.