Kronland-Martinet, R., Aramaki, M., & Ystad, S. (Eds.). (2016). *Music, mind, and embodiment*. Springer.

Lux, V., Non, A. L., Pexman, P. M., Stadler, W., Weber, L. A., & Krüger, M. (2021). A developmental framework for embodiment research: the next step toward integrating concepts and methods. *Frontiers in Systems Neuroscience*, *15*, https://doi.org/10.3389/fnsys.2021.672740

Marzano, R. J., Brandt, R. S., Hughes, C. S., Jones, B. F., Presseisen, B. Z., Rankin, S. C., & Suhor, C. (1988). *Dimensions of thinking: A framework for curriculum and instruction*. Association for Curriculum Supervision and Instruction.

May, W. T. (1989). *Understanding and critical thinking in elementary art and music: General Subjects Center series no. 8, ED308 982*. Educational Resources Information Center.

National Coalition for Core Arts Standards. (2015). *National Core Arts Standards*. State Education Agency Directors of Arts Education.

O’Neill, S. A. (2011). Learning in and through music performance: Understanding cultural diversity via inquiry and dialogue. In M. Barrett (Ed.), *A cultural psychology for music education* (pp. 179–200). Oxford University Press.

O’Neill, S. A. (2018). Becoming a music learner: Toward a theory of transformative music engagement. In G. E. McPherson, & G. F. Welch (Eds.), *Music and music education in people’s lives: An Oxford handbook of music education, Volume 1* (pp. 163–186). Oxford University Press.

Paul, R. (1984). Critical thinking: Fundamental to education for a free society. *Educational Researcher*, *48*, 4–14.

Pitts, S. E. (2017). What is music education for? Understanding and fostering routes into lifelong musical engagement. *Music Education Research*, *19*(2), 160–168. https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.1080/14613808.2016.1166196

Richardson, C. P., & Whitaker, N. P. (1992). Critical thinking and music education. In R. Colwell (Ed.), *Handbook of research on music teaching and learning* (pp. 546–560). Schirmer Books.

Shuler, S. (2008). Large-Scale assessment of music performance: Some whys and hows for today’s data-driven educational environment. In T. S. Brophy (Ed.), *Assessment in music education: Integrating curriculum, theory, and practice* (pp. 123–137). GIA Publications, Inc.

Simpson, E. J. (1972). *The classification of educational objectives in the psychomotor domain*. Gryphon House.

Smith, G. D. (2022). *A philosophy of playing drum kit: magical nexus*. Cambridge University Press.

Thomas, R. B. (1970). Rethinking the curriculum. *Music Educators Journal*, *56*(6), 68–70.

Trilling, B., & Fadel, C. (2009). *21st century skills: Learning for life in our times*. John Wiley & Sons.

Wells, G. (2000). Dialogic inquiry in education: Building on the legacy of Vygotsky. In C. D. Lee & P. Smagorinsky (Eds.), *Vygotskian perspectives on literacy research: Constructing meaning through collaborative inquiry* (pp. 51–85). Cambridge University Press.

Winter, R. (2013). Language, empathy, archetype: Action-metaphors of the transcendental in musical experience. *Philosophy of Music Education Review*, *21*(2), 103–119.

Woodford, P. (1997). Transfer in music as social and reconstructive inquiry. In Rideout, R. (Ed.), *On the sociology of music education*, 43–54. University of Oklahoma.

Younker, B. A (2002). Critical thinking. In R. Colwell, & C. Richardson (Eds.), *The new handbook of research on music teaching and learning* (pp. 162–170). Oxford