*Exploring Musical Thinking* 3

thoughtful, practical, and ultimately feelingful work that combines to create musical experiences. Positive affective or emotional responses to music are the main attraction or source of enjoyment for listeners or performers alike (Juslin, 2016). Physical responses to music happen automatically (e.g., foot tapping and head nodding) and these actions relate to emotional reactions (Hodges, 2016).

By reframing music teaching and learning in terms that reflect the multi-dimensional and inherently meaningful nature of music, this approach represents a new direction in music education. It describes the creative and responsive processes that occur preceding, during, and following musical experiences. The resultant Model for Holistic Musical Thinking offers teachers and students a conceptual framework with practical applications. As discussed in Chapters 2 and 3, this text presents as an examination of established and emergent research on cognitive, affective, and psychomotor learning in combination with learning tools for interdisciplinary arts education and student engagement. By embracing musical thinking as an amalgamation of knowing, doing, and feeling, this Model for Holistic Musical Thinking articulates and enhances meaningful, multi-modal musical experiences with practical suggestions for memorable and effective music teaching and learning. Combining theory and practice of music education in this way extends established educational concepts, while also providing practical examples of the model in action in Chapter 4.

## History and Theory of Musical Thinking

We begin our exploration of Holistic Musical Thinking with an orientation to learning and teaching music. These are deceivingly complicated enterprises. They comprise a three-fold, thoughtful, practical, and feelingful experience. On the surface, showing someone how to play or sing well is relatively simple. This is the main and most obvious part of all music teaching. Observing, imitating, and practicing musical skills are direct ways to replicate the teacher’s performance. Below the surface, however, understanding, analyzing, and reflecting on musical experiences requires critical and creative thinking. On this deeper and more thoughtful level, engaging students in the process of transmission or sharing musical knowledge and skills is an age-old and continuing challenge for music educators. The practice of actually making music is central to its musical essence. Making and sharing music is key to both preserving musical traditions and to