# 1 Exploring Musical Thinking

## Setting the Stage for Musical Thinking

Music, like love, is a many-splendored thing. This realization echoes the song lyrics from the 1955 movie of the same title and is the inspiration for this book. Informed by more than 30 years of experience as a music teacher and teacher-educator, Holistic Musical Thinking articulates observations I have made about the complexity of music teaching and learning. Convincing performances require a three-fold combination: understanding the musical background and conveying the emotional expression, as well as executing skillful technique. It is this three-fold knowing, feeling, and doing or holistic approach to music education that leads us to hands-on and heart-felt musical engagement. In noting the intersection of multiple ways of knowing, I am fond of telling students, “We work in the *music* not the *technique* department!” Said another way, technique is a necessary but insufficient skill to deliver successful musical performances. The following chapters explain issues relevant to music teachers, teacher-educators, and their students so that they can thoughtfully explore the complexity of teaching and making music.

Recent and emergent research as well as historical sources provide both a firm foundation, rooted in tradition, as well as forward-thinking ideas from current scholars in the field. References from music and educational psychology summarize some of the main approaches in the field and their influence on contemporary music education. Although cognitive psychology has been a major focus in music education during the first two decades of the 21st century, this book goes further to address affective and psychomotor learning as key facets of music-making. It also reinforces emergent trends toward a broader,

DOI: 10.4324/9780429270383-1