Exploring Musical Thinking 7

while others have studied ways composers invent notation to encode their compositions (Barrett, 1997) and cognition in terms of neural networks (Fiske, 2004). Still others have framed musical thinking in terms of creative problem solving and cooperative learning (Wiggins, 2015). While these and other perspectives on musical thinking provided valuable insights into the cognitive and social aspects of musical experiences, they have not offered a comprehensive view of applied and affective modes of experiencing music. In contrast, a Model for Holistic Musical Thinking more completely embraces a wider range of multi-faceted, engaging, and meaningful music teaching and learning experiences.

## Schools of Music

In contemporary pedagogy, the notion of *thinking* itself often conjures up images of traditional education and schools. While these institutions have an important role to play in establishing standards and organizing curricula, they do not circumscribe the extent of musical experiences. In other words, the version of music education offered by schools does not fully embrace the full range of musical experiences. Schools, and in particular American public schools, intend to benefit students and society at large by imparting musical knowledge and skills. Their purview, however, is not the limit of musical thinking. Instead, how people engage with music (each at their own level) is much broader and more authentic. Beyond concert halls and auditoria, the places and spaces for music education also include homes, churches, synagogues, garages, campfires, street-corners, and any number of other non-school, social gathering places.

Traditionally, music teachers focus on transmitting or passing down musical knowledge and skills to their students. Contemporary iterations of these skills include ear training, dictation, theoretical analysis, and music literacy. This transmission of skills constitutes training or drill and skill practice. With names such as Juilliard, Curtis, and Eastman, conservatories shape students for their future professional careers using an apprentice-master relationship (Kratus, 2007). This conservatory or apprenticeship model is common to both Western and, in a less formal sense, to non-Western cultures. In a perhaps dated view of this phenomenon, students are selected at a very young age and groomed for future training under the tutelage of masters who pass down centuries of knowledge and skills. In contemporary