6 Exploring Musical Thinking

students practice discipline-specific skills and develop corresponding tools to experience the work, in this case to make music (Ritchhart et al., 2011). By making music or musicking in this way (Small, 1998), learners engage in actual musical experiences, instead of reflecting on its related history, theory, or politics. A new direction along these lines incorporates both reflective and analytical thinking about the musical experience with the actual experience itself. Engagement with music in these multiple domains allows learners to uncover the most salient and personal musical meanings. By doing so, learners engage with the music learning experience to move toward to a personally meaningful and enduring relationship with it (Barrett, 2023; Barrett et al., 1997).

Pythagoras and other ancient Greeks articulated much of what we now know about the physical properties of sound and their relationships to the natural world. While our understanding of the physical properties of sound and silence are well-established, their meanings are not. How we make meaning from experiencing those acoustical phenomena is an ever-evolving pursuit. People interpret music based on their prior experiences. Therefore, teachers can expand learners’ musical horizons and possibilities with exposure to novel musical traditions. They can also introduce students to cultures throughout the world because music is a ubiquitous component, found in every human society (Blacking, 1973; Mannes, 2009).

## Historical Background

In the field of music education, musical thinking has a relatively brief but diverse history. In the 1960s, music educators focused on knowledge about and behaviors in musical contexts, with the intention of preparing students to become musically independent. By the 1980s, however, researchers and teachers found that students completed K-12 music education programs no better prepared to interact with music thoughtfully and independently than in the previous decades. As Eunice Boardman wrote in *Dimensions of Musical Thinking* (1989), the missing ingredient was students’ ability to apply musical knowledge and skills to novel and unfamiliar musical situations.

In the decades that followed, researchers and pedagogues have used a range of educational psychology and general education research to develop approaches in an effort to provide this missing link. Some researchers have studied musical thinking in terms of composition and creative products (e.g., Hickey, 1997; Younker, 2000)