*Exploring Musical Thinking* 9

(Hodges & Grun, 2018). Music is one experience that reaches multiple centers in the brain simultaneously. As the conductor George Szell said, “Music is indivisible. The dualism of feeling and thinking must be resolved to a state of unity in which one thinks with the heart and feels with the brain” (*Time Magazine*, February 22, 1963) (Letts, 2018, p. 287). For our purposes, we therefore define thinking broadly and holistically. The quality and category of thinking depends on both context and purpose, because it directly depends on the subject matter (Ritchhart et al., 2011). As such Holistic Musical Thinking provides musicians and educators with ways to understand musical ideas, make musical meaning, and feel their emotional effects simultaneously.

The model presented in this book provides ways to conceptually and structure musical activities in terms of the many ways people experience music and to integrate those experiences with extra-musical connections. It offers a structured approach to musical thinking that parallels Copland’s *What to Listen for in Music* (1963). In this often-cited text, he articulates three planes of music listening: the sensuous, the expressive, and the sheer musical. He organizes these planes in a hierarchy, from least to most sophisticated. While Copland’s approach draws on years of experience as a composer, performer, and teacher, his focus is also largely cognitive – with the aim of facilitating more intelligent music listening. Comparatively, this holistic interpretation includes the cognitive aspects, while expanding to embrace the affective and psychomotor realms of experiencing music. This model values all three modes of musical experience equally – so that feeling and making music receive as much attention as thinking in and about music. The result is a more complete perspective on music as a universal human experience.

Music educators need a Model for Holistic Musical Thinking with applications to teaching and learning in order to articulate and scaffold related musical experiences in terms of the three traditional learning dimensions (i.e., cognitive, affective, and psychomotor). This is an important first step, “…to make the various forms, dimensions, and processes of thinking visible to ourselves” (Ritchhart et al., 2011, p. 5). The two teaching dimensions that complete the Model for Holistic Musical Thinking are curricular integration and musical engagement. Musical integration broadens and connects musical understanding to other subject areas. While forward-thinking musicians and teachers have at times recognized these important interdisciplinary