10 *Exploring Musical Thinking*

connections, their work has not yet resulted in a cohesive taxonomy of musical engagement. This book presents such a model with the intention of exploring musical experiences through multiple dimensions from teaching and learning perspectives while also recognizing the transferrable thinking skills reaching across traditional disciplinary boundaries.

## Thinking and Music

The term *thinking* implies cognition and an intellectual understanding of events or experiences. In this domain, the most important aspect of musical thinking is critical thinking. As a key 21st century skill, critical thinking is key to analyzing, synthesizing, and understanding musical elements (Trilling & Fadel, 2009). It also occupies one of the highest levels in Bloom’s revised cognitive taxonomy (Anderson et al., 2001). An awareness of one’s own thinking, or metacognition, is a related and essential first step to elevating the quality and efficacy of any thinking process. In musical terms, metacognition is a key factor in students’ understanding of their own musical potential and seeing themselves as creative musicians (Pogonowski, 1989).

Critical thinking in musical contexts enhances the definition of musical thinking. As advocated by Webster and Richardson, “music teachers must encourage children to think more deeply and more imaginatively about music and engage students…if real music learning is to occur” (1993, p. 7). Musical thinking, necessary for students to achieve musical independence (Boardman, 1989), is related to critical thought processes yet distinct from other forms of cognition. Webster and Richardson also suggested that musical thinking includes, “perceiving, representing, storing, and mentally manipulating musical sounds…sharing aspects of these musical sound structures with others in some form of product…and linking these musical sound structures with affect to achieve a deeper sense of personal meaning” (p. 8). Curriculum development in music education should therefore promote significant and meaningful music learning (Campbell & Scott-Kassner, 2019) including thoughts, ideas, and open-ended responses as well as vocabulary and activities. By augmenting students’ awareness of music as a thoughtful experience, music educators can engage students more effectively, encourage them to think more musically, and inspire them to be more musically independent. All of these outcomes point toward