Jorgensen, E. R. (2003). Transforming music education. Indiana University Press.

Juslin, P. N. (2016). Emotional reactions to music. In S. Hallam, I. Cross, & M. Thaut (Eds.), *The Oxford handbook of music psychology* (pp. 197–213). Oxford University Press.

Kaschub, M., & Smith, J. (2014). Music teacher education in transition. In M. Kaschub & J. Smith (Eds.), *Promising practices in 21st century music teacher education* (pp. 3–23). Oxford.

Kerchner, J. L. (2000). Children’s verbal, visual, and kinesthetic responses: Insight into their music listening experience. *Bulletin of the Council for Research in Music Education*, *146*, 31–50.

Kladder, J. R. (Ed.). (2022). *Commercial and popular music in higher education: expanding notions of musicianship and pedagogy in contemporary education*. Taylor & Francis.

Kratus, J. (2007). Music education at the tipping point. *Music Educators Journal*, *94*(2), 42–48.

Larson, S. (2012). *Musical forces: Motion, metaphor, and meaning in music*. Indiana University Press.

Letts, R. (2018). Emotion in music education. In G. E. McPherson & G. F. Welch (Eds.), *Music and music education in people’s lives: An Oxford handbook of music education, Volume 1* (pp. 285–291). Oxford University Press.

Lind, V. R., & McKoy, C. L. (2016). *Culturally responsive teaching in music education*. Routledge.

Lux, V., Non, A. L., Pexman, P. M., Stadler, W., Weber, L. A., & Krüger, M. (2021). A developmental framework for embodiment research: the next step toward integrating concepts and methods. *Frontiers in Systems Neuroscience*, *15*, https://doi.org/10.3389/fnsys.2021.672740

Mannes, E. (2009). *The music instinct: Science & song*. PBS Distribution.

Mark, M., & Gary, C. L. (2007). *A history of American music education*. Rowman & Littlefield Education.

Marshall, J. (2014). Transdisciplinarity and art integration: Toward a new understanding of art-based learning across the curriculum. *Studies in Art Education*, *55*(2), 104–127.

Marzano, R. J., Brandt, R. S., Hughes, C. S., Jones, B. F., Presseisen, B. Z., Rankin, S. C., & Suhor, C. (1988). *Dimensions of thinking: A framework for curriculum and instruction*. Association for Curriculum Supervision and Instruction.

McPherson, G. E., & Welch, G. F. (Eds.). (2018). *Music and music education in people’s lives*. Oxford University Press.

Merriam-Webster. (2024). *Dictionary*. www.merriam-webster.com/

Nakamura, J., & Csikszentmihalyi, M. (2020). The concept of flow. In C. R. Snyder, S. J. Lopez, L. M. Edwards, & S. C. Marques (Eds.), *Handbook of positive psychology* (pp. 279–296). Oxford University Press.

National Coalition for Core Arts Standards. (2015). *National Core Arts Standards*. State Education Agency Directors of Arts Education.

Nicolescu, B. (1999, April 19). The transdisciplinary evolution of learning [Conference presentation]. Annual Meeting of the American Educational Research Association, Montreal, Quebec, Canada.

Noblit, G., Corbett, D., & Wilson, B. (2000). *The arts and education reform: Lesson from a four-year evaluation of the A+ Schools program, 1995–1999*. The Thomas S. Kenan Institute for the Arts.

Noblit, G., Corbett, D., Wilson, B., & McKinney, M. (2009). *Creating and sustaining arts-based school reform: The A+ Schools Program*. Routledge.

O’Neill, S. A. (2018). Becoming a music learner: Toward a theory of transformative music engagement. In G. E. McPherson & G. F. Welch (Eds.), *Music and music*