# 8 Exploring Musical Thinking

culture, however, new versions of this paradigm still persist (Kaschub & Smith, 2014). Elite institutions audition the most promising and accomplished students for professional training and specific career paths. While these world-class conservatories and universities promote high achievements for the selected few students, they also promote and perpetuate an exclusive view of musical participation. This paradigm applies to situations that highlight the talented few in not only classical but also popular musical genres. For example, contemporary television shows such as “American Idol” perpetuate the attitude that some people are more talented than others. The effect being to silence or subjugate others into quiet admiration of the idol’s talent. The masses are idle while the talented are idolized (Johnson, 2013).

A contrasting view, less prevalent in Western societies and more common in African and other cultures, is that music is a natural and unrehearsed part of life. In this view, music is thoroughly and organically integrated into a range of other experiences. Music belongs to everyone because it is part of the universal human experience, as the cultural anthropologist John Blacking wrote in his seminal text *How Musical is Man?*, music is a universal feature of human cultures and societies worldwide (1973). This music-for-all paradigm honors all listeners’ potential for musical thought. As Dewey wrote (1934), art is part of life and plays an integral role in a range of life experiences. He also advocated for play and discovery as natural means to developing understanding and personal growth.

## A New Model

It is important to be clear about what the main educational aims are in music education. Some goals include developing musical independence while others emphasize performance skills and creative capacities. What kinds of related thinking are most musical, and how can teachers foster those thinking skills? Typically, *thinking* is termed a cognitive skill but thinking in fact closely relates to other psychological and physiological dimensions such as the affective and psychomotor, managing attitudes and motor skills. Successful musicians use all these together, combining them in ways to understand the composer’s intent, then express those emotions through practiced performance. As a non-localized mental activity, music excites multiple regions of the brain, reaching well beyond the auditory cortex