Bresler, L. (2002). Out of the trenches: The joys (and risks) of cross-disciplinary collaborations. Bulletin of the Council for Research in Music Education, 152 (Spring), 17–39. www.jstor.org/stable/40319124  
Brophy, T. S. (Ed.). (2019). The Oxford handbook of assessment policy and practice in music education. Oxford University Press.  
Bruner, J. (1997). The culture of education. Harvard University Press.  
Bulger, M. E., Mayer, R. E., Almeroth, K. C., & Blau, S. D. (2008). Measuring learner engagement in computer-equipped college classrooms. Journal of Educational Multimedia and Hypermedia, 17 (2), 129–143.  
Burnaford, G., Aprill, A., & Wiess, C. (2013). Renaissance in the classroom: Arts integration and meaningful learning. Lawrence Erlbaum.  
Burton, J. M., Horowitz, R., & Abeles, H. (2000). Learning in and through the arts: The question of transfer. Studies in Arts Education, 41 (3), 228–257.  
Catterall, J. S., Dumais, S. A., & Hampden-Thompson, G. (2012). The arts and achievement in at-risk youth: Findings from four longitudinal studies. Research Report #55. National Endowment for the Arts.  
Cosenza, G. (2005). Implications for music educators of an interdisciplinary curriculum. International Journal of Education and the Arts, 6 (9), 1–7. www.ijea.org/v6n9/v6n9.pdf  
Crook, E., Reimer, B., & Walker, D. S. (1981). Silver Burdett Music. Silver Burdett.  
Cslovjecsek, M. (2010). How young children teach us to teach—Steps towards an integrative Music Education. Hellenic Journal of Music, Education and Culture, 1 (1).  
Cslovjecsek, M., & Zulauf, M. (2018). Integrated music education: Challenges of teaching and teacher training. Peter Lang.  
Deasy, R. J. (2008). Why the arts deserve center stage. School Administrator, 65 (3), 12–15, 17. www.aasa.org/SchoolAdministratorArticle.aspx?id=5962  
Della Pietra, C. J. (2010). Preservice elementary classroom teachers’ attitudes toward music in the school curriculum and teaching music. Research and Issues in Music Education 8 (1), 1–15. https://files.eric.ed.gov/fulltext/EJ894769.pdf  
Dewey, J. (1916/2018). Democracy and education by John Dewey: With a critical introduction by Patricia H. Hinchey (Vol. 1). Myers Education Press.  
E. S. S. A. (2015). Every student succeeds act (ESSA). Public Law, 114–95.  
Faultley, M., & Collwell, R. (2018). Teaching, learning, and curriculum content. In G. E. McPherson, & G. F. Welch (Eds.), Music and music education in people’s lives: An Oxford handbook of music education, Volume 2 (pp. 257–276). Oxford University Press.  
Folkestad, G. (2006). Formal and informal learning situations or practices vs formal and informal ways of learning. British Journal of Music Education, 23 (2), 135–145.  
Fowler, C. B. (2001). Strong arts, strong schools: The promising potential and shortsighted disregard of the arts in American schooling. Oxford University Press.  
Giles, A. M., & Frego, R. J. D. (2004). An inventory of music activities used by elementary classroom teachers: An exploratory study. Update: Applications of Research in Music Education, 22 (2), 13–22. https://doi.org/10.1177/87551233040220020103  
Goff, R., & Ludwig, M. (2013). Teacher practice and student outcomes in arts-integrated learning settings: A review of literature. Washington DC: American Institutes for Research.  
Hallmark, E. F. (2012). Challenge: The arts as collaborative inquiry. Arts Education Policy Review, 113 (3), 93–99. https://doi.org/10.1080/10632913.2012.687336