# Exploring Musical Thinking 5

of other contexts. Such descriptions integrate the essence or nature of musical experiences with other modes of understanding and expression. The Model for Holistic Musical Thinking presented in later chapters describes both the ways musicians engage with making music in the moment, and their extra-musical connections to other art forms and disciplines. This model encompasses how people intuitively make sense of musical experiences, whether as performers or observers, in cognitive, affective, and psychomotor terms.

Music is not a thing but an activity, something people do. Therefore, Christopher Small coined the term “musicking” in 1998 to highlight the importance of actively making and experiencing music in order to experience the power and relevance of musical engagement. Learning is a holistic process, experienced through authentic and multi-step tasks (Wiggins, 2015). Because both learning and music are holistic, best understood and experienced through multiple lenses or perspectives, an interpretation of musical thinking as holistic is a more accurate and authentic representation of this phenomenon.

## Knowing *About* vs. *Experiencing* Music

Knowing about music and knowing music through musical experiences are distinctly different. Scholars such as Steve Larson have described this difference as thinking in and thinking about music with the main difference being present to the sound of music versus its abstractions (2012). In Western cultural traditions, knowledge about music typically comes in two forms – music theory and music history. Music theorists typically treat music as a puzzle, to be analyzed and dissected using musical elements. Music historians often treat music as examples of grand works, to be celebrated as marvelous achievements. Although explanations of music and musical events contribute to knowing about the historical and theoretical contexts, their importance is based on the experience of music itself. Both theoreticians and historians objectify music, treating it as something “out there” instead of and experience “in here” (Cook, 2021). In contrast, a more authentic approach to music education humanizes music as an embodied activity instead of a tangible product (Hodges, 2016; Lux et al., 2021; Smith, 2022).

With respect to music, learning about the discipline is not the same learning as doing discipline-specific activities. The difference lies in the level of authenticity and engagement. With active, engaged learning,