# Acknowledgements

Thanks to the support and sharing of ideas with numerous colleagues, I have learned and grown through their collaborations to arrive at this point. The work of Timothy Brophy and Michael Palmer has been instrumental in developing ideas that served as a prelude to Holistic Musical Thinking and its theoretical framework. I would also like to acknowledge and thank numerous colleagues and friends for their encouragement and collaboration over the years. Those include my former mentors Robert Cutietta, Sandra Stauffer, Frank Abrahams, and many more. I would also like to thank Clint Randles as the editors at Routledge for supporting this project. I also acknowledge hundreds of students I have had the honor of teaching over the years. We have learned together about musical thinking, how to implement it in the classroom, and its importance to the profession. I also thank my supporters at the University of North Carolina Wilmington for a research reassignment semester when I developed and assembled the central ideas for this project. Most of all, I acknowledge Jennel for her love, support, and graphic expertise throughout this journey.

More than a decade in the making, this book does not present new empirical or qualitative data. Instead, it is a synthesis of ideas from current and previous research that I have assembled into a new model that offers a multi-faceted perspective on musical thinking, specifically illuminating musical engagement and pedagogy. It provides research-based rationale for and application of Holistic Musical Thinking with implications for teaching and learning. My ultimate goal for the model and its application is to empower music teachers, teacher-educators, and their students to embrace and celebrate the many ways music is a complex and many-splendored experience.