Wiggins, J. (2015). Teaching for musical understanding. Oxford University Press.  
Wilson, G. P. (2023). Community of practice and social justice. In F. Abrahams (Ed.), *A music pedagogy for our time* (pp. 123–142). GIA Publications, Inc.  
Woodford, P. (2005). Democracy and music education. Indiana University Press.  
Younker, B. A. (2000). Composing with voice: Students’ strategies, through processes, and reflections. In B. A. Roberts (Ed.), *The phenomenon of singing: Proceedings of the international symposium* (pp. 247–260). Memorial University.  
Younker, B. A. (2002). Critical thinking. In R. Colwell, & C. Richardson (Eds.), *The new handbook of research on music teaching and learning* (pp. 162–170). Oxford University Press.  

## Domains of Teaching and Learning  

Abril, C. R., & Gault, B. M. (2006). The state of music in the elementary school: The principal’s perspective. *Journal of Research in Music Education*, *54*(1), 6–20. https://doi.org/10.1177/002242940605400102  
Anderson, A. (Ed.). (2014). *Arts integration and special education: An inclusive theory of action for student engagement*. Routledge.  
Anderson, L. W., Krathwohl, D. R., Airasian, P. W., Cruikshank, K. A., Mayer, R. E., Pintrich, P. R., Raths, J., & Wittrock, M. C. (Eds.). (2001). *A taxonomy for learning, teaching, and assessing - A revision of Bloom’s taxonomy of educational objectives*. Addison Wesley Longman, Inc.  
Baer, J., & Kaufman, J. C. (2012). Divergent thinking. In J. Baer & J. C. Kaufman (Eds.), *Being creative inside and outside the classroom: How to boost your students’ creativity - and your own* (pp. 13–60). Springer Science & Business Media.  
Barrett, H. C. (2007). Researching electronic portfolios and learner engagement: The REFLECT initiative. *Journal of Adolescent & Adult Literacy*, *50*(6), 436–449.  
Barrett, J. R. (2016). Adopting an interdisciplinary approach to general music. In C. Abril & B. Gault (Eds.), *Teaching general music: Approaches, issues, and viewpoints* (pp. 168–182). Oxford University Press.  
Barrett, J. R. (2023). *Seeking connections: An interdisciplinary perspective on music teaching and learning*. Oxford University Press.  
Barrett, J. R., McCoy, C. W., & Veblen, K. K. (1997). *Sound ways of knowing: Music in the interdisciplinary curriculum*. Schirmer Books.  
Barrett, J. R., & Veblen, K. K. (2018). Meaningful connections in a comprehensive approach to the music curriculum. In G. E. McPherson, & G. F. Welch (Eds.), *Music and music education in people’s lives: An Oxford handbook of music education, Volume 2* (pp. 141–159). Oxford University Press.  
Barry, N. H. (2008). The role of integrated curriculum in music teacher education. *Journal of Music Teacher Education*, *18*(1), 28–38. https://doi.org/10.1177/1057083708323139  
Bartel, L. (2002). Meaning and understanding in music. In B. Hanley, & T. W. Goosby (Eds.), *Musical understanding: Perspectives in theory and practice* (pp. 51–70). The Canadian Music Educators Association.  
Biesta, G. J. (2015). *Good education in an age of measurement: Ethics, politics, democracy*. Routledge.  
Bloom, B. S. (1956). *A taxonomy of educational objectives*. Longmans.  
Bresler, L. (1995). The subservient, co-equal, affective, and social integration styles and their implications for the arts. *Arts Education Policy Review*, *96*(5), 31–37.