## 2 Exploring Musical Thinking

holistic view of music education (e.g., Aróstegui et al., in press), and also provides a more specific focus on musical thinking in teaching and learning contexts.

Regardless of genre or style, people enjoy wonderful musical performances as moving, emotional, and memorable experiences. Our heads bob to the beat of rhythmic drumming, we sing along to soulful melodies, and we dance alone or with our friends as the music literally moves us (Smith, 2022). While music is remarkably entertaining and often impressive in this context, audiences often overlook the related thoughtful nature of music. Exploring how composers and arrangers “put it all together” requires a behind-the-scenes look at the creative processes involved. Therefore, we should consider music as a multi-modal and multi-dimensional experience – one which simultaneously engages us with the head, hands, and heart.

The central theme of this book, is a synthesis of well-established ideas into a new model of musical thinking. Like any model, it is a way of explaining, and understanding our experience. In this case, it embraces the multi-faced and multi-dimensional experience of music that touches us emotionally, moves us physically, and inspires our ideas.

By a holistic understanding of musical thinking, we mean a comprehensive view of the interconnected parts as a whole and complete experience (Merriam-Webster, 2024). As explored in this book, we can only truly understand and appreciate the whole musical experience by embracing its component processes – thoughtful, practical or praxial, and feelingful. Applying the axiom that “the whole is greater than the sum of its parts,” we can appreciate musical experiences more fully and more completely when we examine the intellectual, physical, and emotional aspects of music. Similarly, one of the most meaningful aspects of music, its expressive qualities, are what scholar and music educator Steve Larson described as an “emergent property” which is a holistic attribute, greater than the components that interact to comprise it (2012, p. 18). To represent this approach, this book presents a five-dimensional, Model for Holistic Musical Thinking as the combination of cognitive, affective, and psychomotor, dimensions along with multipurpose ways to integrate other disciplines authentically and to engage learners creatively through guided musical experiences.

This book is for musicians, amateur and professional alike. Exploring musical thinking in a holistic way benefits professional musicians and their students as well as student-musicians and their teachers. Coming to appreciate music in a holistic way honors the