University Press.

Feichas, H . (2010). Bridging the gap: Informal learning practices as a pedagogy of integration. British Journal of Music Education, 27 (1), 47–58.

Fiske, H. E. (2004). Connectionist models of musical thinking. E. Mellen Press.

Fung, V. C. (2003). Possibilities for music education as a result of an expanded musicianship. In S. Leong (Ed.), Musicianship in the 21st century: issues, trends and possibilities (pp. 69–78). Australian Music Centre.

Gulikers, J. T ., Bastiaens, T. J ., & Kirschner, P. A. (2004). A five-dimensional framework for authentic assessment. Educational technology research and development, 52 (3), 67.

Hallam, S ., Cross, I ., & Thaut, M . (2016). Where now? In S. Hallam , I. Cross , & M. Thaut . (Eds.), The Oxford handbook of music psychology (pp. 905–913). Oxford University Press.

Handler, R . (1986). Authenticity. Anthropology today, 2 (1), 2–4.

Harney, K . (2020). Integrating music across the elementary curriculum. Oxford University Press.

Harney, K., Johnson, D. C., Languell, A., & Kanzler, C. (2024). Meaningful Music Integration: Disrupting K- 8 Classroom and Music Teacher Preparation and Practice. In M. Haning, J. A. Stevens, & B. N. Weidner (Eds.), Points of Disruption in the Music Education Curriculum, Volume 2: Individual Changes. Routledge.

Hendricks, K . (2018). Compassionate music teaching: A framework for motivation and engagement in the 21st century. Rowman & Littlefield.

Henriksen, D . (2018). The 7 transdisciplinary cognitive skills for creative education. Springer.

Hickey, M . (1997). Teaching ensembles to compose and improvise: Here are some practical ideas for incorporating the creative activities of composing and improvising into instrumental ensemble rehearsals. Music Educators Journal, 83 (6), 17–21.

Hodges, D. A. (2016). Bodily responses to music. In S. Hallam , I. Cross , & M. Thaut . (Eds.), The Oxford handbook of music psychology (pp. 183–196). Oxford University Press.

Hodges, D. A ., & Grun, W . (2018). Implications of neurosciences and brain research for music teaching and learning. In G. E. McPherson , & G. F. Welch (Eds.), Music and music education in people’s lives: An Oxford handbook of music education, Volume 1 (pp. 206–224). Oxford University Press.

Jarvis, S . (2005). Musical thinking: Hegel and the phenomenology of prosody. Paragraph, 28 (2), 57–71.

Johnson, D. C. (2013, September). Defining real musicians: How twenty-first century technology inspires musical creativity. The Eighth Designs on eLearning International Conference: The Art of Disruptive Engagement, Wilmington, NC.

Johnson, D. C. (2020, January). Frontiers in Authentic, Inclusive, and Transdisciplinary Music Education. Lecture Presentation, Institute for Music Education, Ludwig Maximilian Universität, Munich, Germany.

Johnson, D. C. (2021). Musical explorations: Fundamentals through experience. Kendall Hunt Publishing.

Johnson, D. C ., Harney, K ., Languell-Pudelka, A. B ., & Kanzler, C . (2023). Integrated arts education: perspectives and practices of teacher-educators and student-teachers. The Teacher Educator, 1–19. https://doi.org/10.1080/08878730.2023.2272182

Johnson, D. C ., & Palmer, M . (2019, February). Envisioning Contemporary Music Education through an Authentic, Inclusive, and Transdisciplinary Framework. Research Presentation at the Twelfth Suncoast Music Education Research Symposium, Tampa, FL.