4 Exploring Musical Thinking

innovating new musical trajectories. Finally, communicating the story or message of any musical composition is perhaps the most long-lasting and touching part of any musical experience.

Created in 1965 by Richard Thomas, Comprehensive Musicianship through Performance (CMP) was an early example of holistic music teaching and learning. CMP offered a model for teaching performing with understanding in ensemble settings (Sindberg, 2009). As Thomas explained, learning music should focus on personal connections to music, thereby promoting self-expression as students discover musical meaning through performance (1970). This curricular reform showed the links between performance and making personal meaning by understanding musical context; this holistic approach clearly demonstrates cognitive, affective, and psychomotor learning. Perhaps the most important outcome of CMP was the term “comprehensive musicianship” which has entered the lexicon of music education in the decades that followed (Sindberg, 2009). As we will explore, a parallel Model for Holistic Musical Thinking expands on the premise articulated in CMP to broaden the student experience of music.

## Definitions

Musical Thinking describes the range of cognitive, affective, and psychomotor processes that occur preceding, during, and following musical experiences. In more practical terms, we translate the musical ideas originating in our heads as we manipulate instruments with our hands or voices to create heart-felt musical experiences. For performers and listeners alike, these processes allow for meaningful, multi-modal engagement with musical experiences. While music teachers regularly explain musical concepts and ideas cognitively, the presence of music itself occupies another realm – that of the immediate experience. In that visceral and all-encompassing sense, “the exceptional power of music may be related to its ability to stimulate us aurally, visually, intellectually, emotionally, and physically, simultaneously” (Hallam et al., 2016, p. 905). Performing musicians, for example, regularly describe the experience of flow or making music in the moment (Nakamura & Csikszentmihalyi, 2020). This focused and immediate experience frequently combines thinking, doing, and feeling at various levels for musicking or live music-making (Small, 1998). As a counterpart, observers (other than those performing) describe music after-the-fact, frequently to understand music in terms