# Exploring Musical Thinking

Anderson, L. W., Krathwohl, D. R., Airasian, P. W., Cruikshank, K. A., Mayer, R. E., Pintrich, P. R., Raths, J., & Wittrock, M. C. (Eds.) (2001). A taxonomy for learning, teaching, and assessing - A revision of Bloom's taxonomy of educational objectives. Addison Wesley Longman, Inc.

Aróstegui, J. L., Christophersen, C., Nichols, J., & Matsunobu, K. (Eds.) (in press). The Sage Handbook of School Music Education. Sage.

Arts Education Data Project. (2019). *National Arts Education Summary Report*. https://artseddata.org/national_report_2019/ based learning across the curriculum. Studies in Art Education, *55*(2), 104–127.

Bamberger, J. (2000). Developing musical intuitions. Oxford University Press.

Barnette, C. (2021). I notice – I wonder – I value. https://teachingwithorf.com/i-notice-i-wonder-i-value/

Barrett, J. R. (2023). Seeking connections: An interdisciplinary perspective on music teaching and learning. Oxford University Press.

Barrett, J. R., McCoy, C. W., & Vebelen, K. K. (1997). Sound ways of knowing: Music in the interdisciplinary curriculum. Schirmer Books.

Barrett, J. R., & Vebelen, K. K. (2018). Meaningful connections in a comprehensive approach to the music curriculum. In G. E. McPherson, & G. F. Welch (Eds.), *Music and music education in people's lives: An Oxford handbook of music education, Volume 2* (pp. 141–159). Oxford University Press.

Benedict, C., Schmidt, P., Spruce, G., & Woodford, P. (Eds.) (2015). *The Oxford handbook of social justice in music education*. Oxford University Press.

Blacking, J. (1973). How musical is man? University of Washington Press.

Blair, D. V. (2007). Musical maps as narrative inquiry. *International Journal of Education & the Arts*, & www.ijea.org/v8n15/

Boardman, E. (Ed.). (1989). *Dimensions of musical thinking*. MENC - The National Association for Music Education.

Brophy, T. S. (Ed.). (2019). *The Oxford handbook of assessment policy and practice in music education*. Oxford University Press.

Campbell, P. S., & Scott-Kassner, C. (2019). *Music in childhood enhanced: From preschool through the elementary grades*. Cengage Learning.

Cassidy, J. W. (2001). Listening maps: Undergraduate students’ ability to interpret various iconic representations. *Update: Applications of Research in Music Education*, *19*, 15–19. doi:10.1177/87551233010190020104

Cook, N. (2021). *Music: A very short introduction* (2nd ed.). Oxford University Press.

Copland, A. (1963). *What to listen for in music*. McGraw-Hill.

Darling-Hammond, L., & Snyder, J. (2000). Authentic assessment of teaching in context. *Teaching and teacher education*, *16*(5–6), 523–545.

De Jong, D. C., Pike, G., West, S., Valerius, H., Kay, A., & Ellis, S. (2021). Shared music, shared occupation: Embedding music as a socio-altruistic collective and co-occupation in occupational therapy education. *Journal of Occupational Science*, *28*(3), 374–387.

Dewey, J. (1934). *Art as experience*. G. P. Putnam's Sons.

Drake, S., & Reid, J. (2021). Thinking now: Transdisciplinary thinking as a disposition. *Academia Letters*, 1–6.

Dressel, J. H. (1988). Critical thinking and the perception of aesthetic form. *Language Arts*, *65*(5), 567–572.

Fautley, M., & Colwell, R. (2018). Teaching, learning, and curriculum content. In G. E. McPherson, & G. F. Welch (Eds.), *Music and music education in people's lives: An Oxford handbook of music education, Volume 2* (pp. 257–276). Oxford