A subtle difference between these two clips also highlights the flexibility in the technique. Michael is confused; Aaron's response was strong and very close to gold standard, so Denarius “previews” for Michael—that is, he lets him know explicitly that he'll be coming back to him. This makes the process transparent and reminds Michael to listen carefully to Kayla's response.

The setting is also worth noting in the two clips. The first happens during a brief interval of retrieval practice. The second comes at the end of guided practice and right before students solve on their own. Both of these moments of transition are critical from a Check for Understanding perspective when you would especially want to ensure student knowledge. You can't always use *No Opt Out* but Denarius has chosen his timing strategically.

The second example also might have offered Denarius the alternative of using a cue if he'd wanted to. That is, instead of asking Kayla for the answer he could have first previewed—“OK, Michael, let's get you some help. I'm going to come back to you”—and then asked, “Without giving Michael the answer, who can tell him one word that will help him here?” Let's say that here Kayla raises her hand and replies, “Inverse. He has to use the inverse of something.” He can see now in Michael's face that this has been enough and returns to him: “Ready now, Michael?”

“Yes. We need to take the inverse of cosine and then …”

We've come across three terms that are helpful in using to the technique so far. The *return* is the part of the *No Opt Out* when you go back to a student who initially struggled to answer fully. A *preview* is when you tell that student explicitly that you are coming back to them to encourage them to listen carefully to peers, as in: “OK, listen carefully and I'll come back to you.” You don't have to use a preview, but it can be helpful in establishing familiarity with and