culture. They loved being there, worked hard, and were happy; they were very successful—arguably the best school in the city it served. But the school had asked my team and me to help them think about their reading outcomes, which lagged behind the rest of their outstanding results.

I remember one English classroom in particular. Students were reading a challenging novel and paused to write about it during class. Their *Silent Solo* (technique 39) was perfect and they wrote with energy and commitment from the moment the teacher said “Go!” until she said, “OK, pencils down.” But as they wrote I walked around the room and read over students' shoulders. What I saw was an immense amount of diligent but often inchoate writing—phrases and words strove to express ideas but were not quite coherent. There would often be a nicely chosen word, an insightful phrase in the midst of a ramshackle sentence, but the pieces did not add up. The whole was almost always lesser than the sum of the parts. Students tried hard but did not produce clear ideas or arguments.

What students lacked was syntactic control, which Bruce Saddler defines as “the ability to create a variety of sentences that clearly express an intended meaning.”⁶

To master a sentence, to render unto it the power to capture a complex thought with nuance and precision, one must master a set of tools that are rarely named and even more rarely taught—in part, because we often scorn them.

The sentence in the previous paragraph, for example, required a pair of introductory prepositional phrases, the second echoing the first in vaguely appositive-like manner. It required an em dash. It required subordinating conjunctions. I had to construct a sentence in which the subject—“one,” by the way—was the twentieth word.