# Timing the Name

Deciding where in the *Cold Call* you will name the student who is to answer is important. The default approach is to ask the question, pause, and then name a student—for example, “What’s three times nine [pause], James?” Using the sequence *question, pause, name* ensures that every student begins preparing an answer during the pause. For example, everyone does three times nine, with one student merely called on to give their answer aloud. Saying the name first, as in “Jairo, what’s three times nine?” will result in fewer students preparing the answer because they know they won’t be called on. Since the difference in ratio is significant (twenty-five students answering a question and one saying it aloud versus one student answering a question and twenty-five watching) is significant, so *question, pause, name* is the default.

In some cases, however, calling a student’s name first—*name, pause, question*—can be beneficial. It can cue a student to listen attentively before the question has been asked and increase the likelihood of success. This can be especially effective with students who might be reluctant to be *Cold Called* or who might struggle the first few times, perhaps because of language processing difficulties, or because knowledge of English is still developing. Using the name first can also help establish clarity about your *Means of Participation* (see *technique 36*). After a chorus of *Call and Response* (*technique 35*), for example, saying, “And, Damari, why do we multiple there?” would signal to students that you’re no longer asking students to call out answers. In some cases placing the name in the middle of the question—“And how does wind, Damani, play a role in the erosion process?”—can let your question pick up the conversational thread from the previous comment and create continuity, but confirm full attention from the student you’re *Cold Calling* so they hear the question.