question, just more insightfully. You could also add more lines beneath the prompt to suggest that you want more thinking after the discussion, but again I like the idea that it's exactly the same. The message is as much about changing what you wrote as it is adding to it. *I don't want more; I want better.* That said, subtle changes might be fine. One teacher at a workshop in London (I'm sorry I don't remember who!) noted that he would change the prompt slightly so that the first one asked *What does the figurative language in the first and second stanza tell you about the flowers?* and the second *What does the figurative language in the first and second stanza tell us about the flowers?* I like that idea—and the idea that there are lots of ways you could play with the concept of writing before and after a discussion in a disciplined way.

You can see several great examples of *Front the Writing* in two of the Keystone videos in this book. The explosion of hands two minutes into Jessica Bracey's clip is in part a result of the fact that students have all written first. So, too, the hands at the beginning of Arielle Hoo's class, when she asks them to write their conjectures. And of course at the end of Arielle's class there's a group revision in writing.

**TECHNIQUE 41: ART OF THE SENTENCE**

In *Everybody Writes* I defined two types of writing: formative and summative. Now I want to introduce a third: developmental writing, which is writing designed to build *syntactic control* though *deliberate practice*. In a moment I will define those terms, but first I want to explain why developmental writing is so important.

Not long ago I visited a highly successful school. Instruction was strong and the kids had bought in to the