One of the most important tools you can use to maintain emotional constancy is to **Walk Slow**, which I mean literally and figuratively. Teaching young people to slow down their decisions is a good way to help them make better decisions—with the cortex and not the amygdala. Even a fraction of a second can make a difference. It’s the same for teachers. As you approach a situation that you yourself are emotional about, walk slowly—I mean this metaphorically—don’t rush to react—but also quite literally, move slowly when you feel yourself getting upset. I once observed Bridget McElduff in a lesson where a student laughed at another student for struggling to read a series of challenging words correctly aloud. Bridget was angry. She loved her students and felt a strong desire in particular to defend a student from mockery, especially in her own classroom, especially when it was a result of her taking exactly the sort of risk that was necessary to learning. Bridget began walking briskly over to address the laughing student, who was on the other side of the room.

But Bridget was able to tell herself to take a route around the back of the room and as she did that, she slowed her pace. This gave her a few precious seconds to compose herself and choose her words carefully. By the time Bridget got to the young man she was able to calmly explain why his behavior was unacceptable and remind him that she knew he was better than that. The walk was key. She needed a moment to get over her momma-bear anger. All it took was three or four seconds, but it really made a difference. Suddenly she realized that he was conducting an experiment. She had to help him reject the hypothesis: *laughing at a classmate was acceptable*. But she also had to understand that testing is what young people do.

Fools rush in. Anytime you feel yourself having a negative emotional response, strive to “walk slow”—literally or figuratively. A fraction of a second is often enough.