we have not done something as well as we might, the most productive response is simply to do it over, a little better, a little sharper. This response—“That wasn't quite right; let's try it again,” or “That was good, but let's try it again and see if we can be great”—is far superior to the alternatives: either ignoring the issue and letting quality of follow-through degrade, or chastening students for poor execution, or loading up their working memory with feedback they don't really get to use. By having students strive to do it over and better, you leverage the power of repetition and practice to painlessly build strong culture and self-discipline.

*Do It Again*, in other words, is the perfect tool to help maintain proficiency at something your students know how to do. It can as easily be applied to math procedures—“Try that again and make sure your decimals are lined up”—and classroom habits—“Just a minute, guys. Carlton, please start your answer over again and we'll all make sure we're giving you strong eye contact while you're speaking.”

In a range of situations it's effective because:

- *It shortens the feedback loop.* Behavioral science has shown that the shorter the time lag between an action and a response, the more effective the response will be in changing the behavior. Let's say you have a clear expectation for entering the classroom, and a group of students comes in from recess in a disorderly way. Having the group stay in for recess three hours later is less likely to change their behavior than is a lesser response that occurs right away. If the reaction comes immediately after, while the original action is fresh in the students' minds, the two will be more clearly associated in their memory. In the three-hours-later scenario, they will be more likely to think, “She kept me in for recess.” In the moment, they are more likely