direct and focus their attention and how successful they are at focusing that attention will play a large role in determining what they accomplish, in the classroom and more broadly. And attention is a habit, mostly shaped by both individual decisions and larger culture. The effect of smartphones on our capacity to concentrate should make that clear enough.

*Cold Call* is one of several tools that builds a lattice of loving accountability into your classroom culture. Certainly you can decide not to use it and leave your students' levels of effort and attention to chance. Many teachers do. But, in my opinion at least, it is a disservice to the young people we care about to not immerse them in a culture that socializes them to attend and focus and give their best every day. James *Cold Calls* because he cares. It is the same for a teacher.12

## Purpose 3: Checking for Understanding

As I discuss in [Chapter Three](), knowing the difference between “I taught it” and “They learned it” is the core challenge of teaching and requires effective, real-time data collection. This is one of *Cold Call*’s most important contributions. To fully assess what students in your class know you must be able to ask questions of any (and every) student at any time. Students who voluntarily participate are more likely to know the answer than the students who don’t. If you are limited to assessing only these students when you ask a question, you will never be able to assess all members of the class, and you will always think the class has learned more than it has. When you set out to use questions to assess students’ understanding, your default should be to use significant amounts of *Cold Call*. This will allow you to not only call on people “randomly” but to go one better and to call on what is likely to be a statistical sample of the room—or on students you are worried about.