that fully answers the question or completely captures the key idea. It's not a mistake, it's just not all the way complete.

What happens next? How do we validate a student's contribution while continuing to push for deeper and more precise thinking?

If we struggle in this moment, it may be in part because of our best intentions. We want to encourage students or we want to keep the class engaged or we need to make sure we get to the *Exit Ticket* before the bell rings, so we say “right” or “good” or “yes” to that almost-there response. However, there are real risks to calling “right” that which is not truly and completely right. Students look to their teachers as arbiters of quality. They rely on us to communicate with honesty and objectivity, using our expertise to evaluate whether responses have answered a question fully and well, so that they may better understand their own progress in learning. If we are not fully honest when we say, “Yes, you have done work of merit,” we not only misinform them but sow seeds that eventually erode that essential trust.

*Right Is Right* is about how to respond in the way that's most beneficial to students when an answer is almost right—pretty good, but not 100 percent.

Although it seems obvious that we should set a high standard, we often drop our standards unintentionally. Consider a common teacher habit that I refer to as “rounding up.” Rounding up involves a teacher responding to a partially or nearly correct answer by affirming it and in so doing, adding critical detail (perhaps the most insightful or challenging detail) to make the answer fully correct. Imagine, for example, a student who's asked at the beginning of *Romeo and Juliet* how the Capulets and Montagues get along. “They don't like each other,” the