A final thought: the more you use writing, the better (and more efficient) your students get at using it. The first time you try it, it may take students a bit of time to get started; the quality may be only so-so. But by the time they are answering reflection prompt number 87, as students in *Jessica Bracey: Keystone* do, they are very good and very efficient at using the *Everybody Writes* moment as an opportunity to develop their thoughts. Practicing something important eighty-six times will have that effect. This was certainly evident in Jessica's class: not only was the post-writing discussion of high quality, but it began with almost every hand shooting into the air. Having had an opportunity to “write to determine what they think,” they are now ready to discuss, expand, and refine their ideas in discussion.

## TECHNIQUE 39: SILENT SOLO

Successful teaching often consists of sublime moments achieved in part via mundane tools. That is certainly true of this chapter, which describes how changes in the ways we ask students to write can transform the ways they think and maximize the value and quality of other activities we engage in as well. If you can get everyone in the room to write for a sustained period of time, the benefits to student thinking and discussion will be many.

- Giving students the opportunity to write for a minute or so before a discussion will lead to better listening, more confident participation, and higher-quality ideas to share.
- Short, formative written reflections in the midst of learning can help students not just to document what they think but to discover and expand it.