question. Suddenly he looked up and interjected: “The right back is out of position.”

“Sorry?” I said, wondering which team's right back, and whether he was talking about the game unfolding in the stadium far below or something more abstract and metaphorical.

“He's come too far towards the center and cannot see his man,” Iain said. He gestured with his sandwich to point this out to me. As he did so an opposition player noticed the same thing. He drove a pass to a teammate on the dead run in the right back's blind spot. Moments later it was 1-0.

We'd been watching the game for half an hour in a relaxed way when suddenly, one player among twenty-two was out of position for a few seconds, and Iain had seen it instantly, from eighty yards away, while chatting and eating a sandwich. A sort of alarm had gone off. You could see it in his body language: He knew it meant trouble.

How had he done that? The key was his knowledge of what things were *supposed* to look like. “The back four have a proper shape,” he said. “Together they should look a bit like a saucer. The saucer should tilt a bit in response to where the ball is,” he said, gesturing with his hands.

What Iain was describing was a *mental model*, a framework that people use to understand complex environments. His mind was continually comparing what was in front of him to this mental model and it helped him to notice quickly things that were important or out of place.

Teachers too have mental models. You briefly turn your back on your class but can distinguish without looking the normal and natural chatter of students busily on-task from talking that “sounds wrong.” You might not be able to explain how it's wrong, but hearing it, you know distraction is afoot. You have a mental model of classroom noise.