understands the idea in the first half of the sentence but misses the syntactic cue that explains its relationship to the second half. Suddenly she is lost. Readers who do not have mastery of the hidden vocabulary of syntax are always fighting a rising tide of meaninglessness. For writers who lack syntactic control, all but the simplest strands of thought resist their mastery. Precision matters because ideas are brought into being by the words that create them. Before that they are just the stuff of fog and instinct. “Language is the mother, not the handmaiden, of thought,” is how W. H. Auden expressed this idea.

*Art of the Sentence (AOS)* is the name for tools designed to teach syntactic control, happily in quite enjoyable ways and without even a whiff of sentence diagramming.

Those tools rely in part on short exercises, each with a clear goal in which students use and master specific aspects of syntactic control. Deliberate practice, if you will. You probably think students already get a ton of practice with their writing but, as Judith Hochman notes in her outstanding book *The Writing Revolution*,^9 writing gets assigned a lot but not taught a lot.

There are two things a developmental writing exercise needs to work: depth of content and scarcity. The two work together. As Judith Hochman points out, developmental writing must always be embedded in the content you are teaching. Students have to have an idea of substance to wrestle with and they have to know things connected to that idea (recall Daniel Willingham's observation that I discuss in [Chapter One](#) that higher-order thinking relies on background knowledge). When students have plenty to say about a concept and are driven to express it, you then introduce scarcity. Usually this means requiring them to write a single sentence. This causes outward pressure on the sentence—students who want to say a lot but are