helps you bring a calming effect to students in an escalating situation. And to yourself. Teachers often find that making a habit of using Quiet Presence, of always working toward quiet like Arielle does, helps them tamp down their emotions. You feel calmer because you speak more calmly and this help ensure that the interaction ends successfully.

You can see an excellent example of how speaking quietly and slowly signals caring and focus to students in Emily Bisso's lovely interaction with a student, Joshua, in *Emily Bisso: Write What I Write*. As the clip opens, Joshua is eagerly seeking Emily's attention to the detriment of his note-taking. It's counterproductive but also signals a student with whom she has a positive and caring relationship. She'd like to preserve that, not to mention Joshua's feelings. As Joshua waves his paper at her, Emily lowers her voice and uses impeccable economy of language. She “lives in the now” (see technique 59, *Positive Framing*) as well in describing what the solution looks like in the very next moment. “Write what I write, Joshua. Thank you, sweetie.” Receiving the signal that Emily is seeking to communicate her corrective guidance privately and quietly, and hearing the opposite of tension in the calm steadiness of her voice, Joshua returns happily to his work.

**Principle 5: Self-Interrupt (Formerly *Do Not Talk Over*)**

If what you're saying is worth students' attention—you are explaining the task they need to complete for the next six minutes or explaining the symbolism of the conch in *Lord of the Flies*—every student has the right to hear and the responsibility to allow others to do so. If students cannot hear you say these things, they cannot complete learning tasks or understand what they need to understand to succeed. Not every utterance you make in the classroom