recognize as well. In many classrooms there is no model for what the social norms should communicate while Asha speaks or after she has spoken and her words hang in the air. Is it really their business whether students show an interest in what their classmates say? Or perhaps there is a model, but it is mostly words—her teacher and maybe her school do not believe that what happens in that moment is within their control. Imagine what a headache it would be to try to make that happen with hundreds of students, many of whom “just don’t care”? In the end, what happens in this moment and a thousand like it will most likely be an accident: lucky or unfortunate, supportive or destructive, with immense consequences for Asha and her classmates.

Something close to optimal culture, where Asha's classmates are communicating with eye contact and body language: *we are listening; we respect your idea; it interests us; keep raising your hand*, does not occur naturally or by accident. It occurs when adults cause it to happen.

Let me close with a short parable about something I call the Band-Aid Paradox.

At the beginning of his book *Predictably Irrational*, a study of “why people misunderstand the consequences of their behaviors and for that reason repeatedly make wrong decisions,” Duke behavioral economist and psychologist Dan Ariely tells a story about bandages.

Nurses often operate under the belief that that ripping bandages off quickly delivers less pain to patients than slower, more gradual removal. Fast bandage removal is proven to be the preferable form of treatment, many believe.

A burn victim during his youth, Ariely had a great many bandages removed by this method and was skeptical. His