In the video *Arielle Hoo: Eyes Up Here*, Arielle's *What to Do* directions—impeccable, clear, warm, and gracious—always start with an observable direction: “Eyes up here” or “Track up here.” This allows her to scan for follow-through and attention and make sure students hear all the math. She combines her WTD directions with several exceptional examples of technique 53, Radar and Be Seen Looking.

## Keys to Effective Delivery with *What to Do*

**Economy of Language:** Maybe the most useful piece of advice for making *What to Do* directions effective is to use as few words as possible. More words often make the necessary task less clear or more ambiguous. You might think economy of language would make you sound stern, but of course crispness can be done with grace and warmth, as the clip *Tamesha McGuire: Baseline* beautifully demonstrates. Tamesha's directions are: “Tuck your chairs,” “Pencils up,” and “Write your name.” The longest has three words, which helps her kindergartners to get happily to work and gives her lots of time to circulate and share the warmth instead of offering repeated reminders. This is especially important with your first direction. You can see that play out in *Denarius Frazier: Try That Grid*, in which Denarius's directions sound much like Tamesha's: “In pairs.” “Two minutes.” “You do one.” “Try that grid, fill in all the blanks that you can.” The crispness and clarity of the first two directions earns students' attention and focus.

A second key to success is to use **Emotional Constancy**, that is to deliver directions and corrections in an even tone, even if you are feeling a little frazzled or frustrated, so students focus on and respond to your