is, make a certain number of comments without mediation from you. We call this “playing volleyball, not tennis.” Some examples:

- A teacher asks students to share their opinions about the ethics of genetically modifying food and organisms. She takes three or four student comments in a row and then returns to her presentation on the topic.
- A teacher asks students to participate in a ten-minute whole-class discussion of the impact of corruption on American politics in the 1890s.
- A teacher asks students to *Turn and Talk* (technique 43) with a partner to identify where a peer made a mistake in adding two fractions with unlike denominators.

While whole-class discussions are great, they tend to have a higher transaction cost—it takes time to set them up and to give multiple people a chance to talk. Balancing larger discussions with pair discussions can allow you to include it more frequently and in shorter intervals, especially because a *Turn and Talk* can so easily be made into a routine that students begin quickly and easily, thus preserving ideas in working memory. You can see both Sadie and Christine doing this throughout their lessons.

## Activity 6: Review/Retrieval Practice

Retrieval Practice is reviewing previously mastered content to ensure its encoding in long-term memory and to facilitate its easy retrieval. Including review is not only beneficial from a learning perspective. John Sweller reminds teachers that “the major function of instruction is to allow learners to accumulate critical information in long-term memory.” Sadie is doing this at the beginning of her