into working memory. Having done so, their knowledge of it returns roughly to the level it was at by the end of the original lesson.

Of course, after this review, forgetting begins again. What students know again starts to slip away. The second downward sloping line (B) captures this. But the rate of forgetting is slower now and the line starts to flatten sooner—which suggests that more remains in long-term memory. If you review again, knowledge is refreshed and forgetting again resumes immediately after—represented by line C—but again the rate is slower yet and the floor (total amount of knowledge retained) is higher still.

As the cognitive psychologists Paul Kirschner, John Sweller, and Richard Clark write: “The aim of all instruction is to alter long-term memory. If nothing has changed in long-term memory, nothing has been learned.”2 If we spent an hour studying the systems of the human body only to have students forget it—a day later, a week later, a month later—then the lesson might have been interesting and engaging, but students would have learned precious little. Even the deepest and most profound discussions remain at risk of evaporating as if into ether. As Harry Fletcher Wood puts it, “Student performance while being taught is a poor indicator of lasting learning.” We should by all means check for understanding at the end of a lesson. But just because students appear to know something at the end of that hour does not mean they will know it in a week, a month, or a year. If we want lasting learning, we have to get things into long-term memory, and retrieval practice is the best way to do that.

Since the concept of *Retrieval Practice* is discussed throughout cognitive psychology in a wide variety of contexts, the following is a useful “teacher's definition.”