of going back and forth between procedural and conceptual questions.

“When we are solving it means we are finding the value of the letter. So we want x on its own and we have solved the equation,” Rachel begins, reminding her class of a key definition. Then she asks a procedural question to start: “What's my first step here?”

Brandon answers and Rachel asks a conceptual question: “What is the mathematical name for what Brandon has just done?”

Moments later she's back to procedural questions, *Cold Calling* Ella and then Arian to ask, “What do I do next?”

“OK, this time we are simplifying,” she says as she moves on to a new problem. Now she starts conceptually: “Who can tell me another word for simplifying?” She gets a correct answer, finding like terms, so asks Karis, “So here where are our like terms?

Karis has left off the negative sign and Rachel asks, “Can anyone improve on Karis's answer?” But of course there are multiple sets of like terms so she asks Azaria for another set. After these conceptual questions—What are like terms? How can I spot them?—she goes back to procedural questions, asking Hannah to add -3x and 5x and Ellis whether she can simplify any further. When he answers correctly, she asks a conceptual question: “What do I mean when I say index? What's the index here?”

Later, after students have mastered concepts, a less methodical approach might well work, but remember this caution: Our own memories of our experiences as learners sometimes work against us. We remember moments that were unforgettable to us later in our studies. They were unstructured. We were granted the opportunity to explore. Suddenly: an epiphany. Perhaps you still remember walking