omnipresence of technology, and these have elevated even further the importance—I might even say urgency—of an intentional approach to reading in the classroom that includes the use of *FASE Reading*. This is, in my mind, one of the handful of most important techniques in the book.

What does FASE mean? It's an acronym, and even though I'm not crazy about acronyms, the previous name was obscure,¹⁹ and this technique needed a new name that communicated something important about the technique. The previous name communicated important things about the technique mostly to me and me alone.

The new name, FASE, is intended to remind teachers about four things they should try to reinforce when students read aloud. It also sounds a bit like “phase” and this can be a reminder that it often happens in a cycle of a few minutes that yields to other activities and then is used again later. A phase—like *FASE Reading*—is often temporary but recurring.

**F is for fluency.** Fluency is hugely important for readers at all levels. We want to use *FASE Reading* as an opportunity to build it. This is because, as Student Achievement Partners note in a recent white paper, “Research shows dysfluency causes as much as 40% of the variance in students who pass [state] tests versus those who fail. This is true for every testing grade.”²⁰ You don't have to like tests to get the point: Comprehension and understanding require fluency. You must read not just individual words but strings of words at the speed of sight²¹—with automaticity that is, so that your full working memory is free to think about the text. One of the least contemplated, obvious things about reading is that it has to happen fast—“at the speed of sight,” as Mark Seidenberg puts it—for it to work. We have to be able to make sense of it as soon as we perceive it. If you're asking a student about the author's