Jada's tracking; Juju's tracking." Once she reminds a student to reciprocate the signal—to turn and face his classmates as they are tracking him. Other times she reminds students indirectly and playfully as in segment 4: “Ooh, Jasmine, girl, wait until you have all eyes.”

- You can also see habits in formation. Notice how, without her asking students to, students turn and engage face-to-face and expressively in their *Turn and Talk*. Many a teacher can tell you tales of flat affect and disinterest expressed in pair conversations, but not in Christine's class.

- The culture carries over, too, in the moment when she calls on Nate without asking for tracking … still his classmates turn to face him. The signal of belonging is loud and clear.

- The montage ends with Christine asking for students to track her. She's giving them a key piece of information. It's critical that they hear and attend. By asking for tracking she signals the extra importance of the moment. Students lock in and, without her asking them to, adjust their own posture.

That said, even a well-established routine is a default—understood as the base condition but a condition that can be changed or turned off. I witnessed an example of this in Torian Black's history class at Freedom Prep in Memphis one morning not too long ago.

During his lesson he gave students a variety of reading and writing tasks to complete in groups. The tasks were complex and afforded students a significant amount of autonomy, so it was important that they listen carefully and get the directions right. His gentle reminders to “make sure you're listening” were accompanied by a warm and gracious smile. This not only communicated trust and