information. If this topic is of interest to you, Oliver Caviglioli's *Dual Coding* is an excellent starting point.

10. Pam A. Mueller and Daniel Oppenheimer conducted three separate studies to compare longhand note takers to those who took notes on laptops (“The Pen Is Mightier Than the Keyboard: Advantages of Longhand Over Laptop Note Taking,” *Psychological Science* 25, no. 6 [2014]). “In three studies,” the authors wrote, “we found that students who took notes on laptops performed worse on conceptual questions than students who took notes longhand. We show that whereas taking more notes can be beneficial, laptop note takers' tendency to transcribe lectures verbatim rather than processing information and reframing it in their own words is detrimental to learning.” In a 2014 discussion of Mueller and Oppenheimer's research in *Scientific American*, Cindi May notes, “Because longhand notes contain students' own words and handwriting, they may serve as more effective memory cues by recreating the context (e.g. thought processes, emotions, conclusions) as well as content (e.g. individual facts) from the original learning session.” Some researchers suggest that typewritten notes offer other advantages (e.g. they may be preferable because they can be more easily edited). This may be true, but it is also true that having a laptop out during class causes students to multitask and distract themselves. Daisy Christodoulou's *Teachers vs Tech?* summarizes much of the research in this area. She cites Carter, Greenberg, and Walker's 2016 study in which students who did not bring devices to a course did better than those who did and Glass and Kang's 2018 study in which students were randomly split into two lecture groups, one with devices and one without, with the result being that students without devices did better. One possible reason might be the benefits of longhand