# Rigor Checklist

A few years ago I watched a day's worth of lessons at schools in a major East Coast city school district. They had been working with a program that was using *Teach Like a Champion* to train new teachers and wanted feedback on how the teachers were doing. One classroom stayed with me more than the others. The teacher had done a lovely job of establishing productive procedures and routines and positive culture. Her students sat eagerly at their desks, ready to learn, listening expectantly. She had worked hard and done well to set the stage for an outstanding lesson. But there were crucial things missing. The lesson involved simplistic tasks—underlining a sentence in an article that was too easy. Students circled answers to multiple-choice questions but didn't do any writing. They sat at their desks, waiting for some worthy and inspiring task to begin, the brightness ebbing slowly away from their faces. This was what school was, they were learning.

The journalist Ellis Cose writes of sitting in his second- or third-grade classroom this way: “It came to me as I was sitting at my desk trying to keep myself interested as the teacher led the class, one listless word at a time, through the book I had read the first day of school, a book (and not a particularly interesting one) she would end up taking the entire semester to slow walk us through.”⁶ Alfred Tatum summarizes Cose’s realization this way, noting that it applies to far more students than one: “The longer he went to school the more he was convinced that real learning would not take place.”⁷ In this way what Tatum calls “anti-intellectualism” develops in American classrooms. Students are bored when challenge, rigor, and a feeling of momentum are