These things are critical to ensuring the accuracy of the data you gather.

A second, related application: One of the biggest challenges in checking for understanding is the gap between performance and learning. What our students appear to be able to do at the end of a lesson is almost always in part a false positive. They have not yet begun to forget. We assess what we think our students know at the end of a lesson and even if their answers are all correct, we are likely to overestimate their knowledge because forgetting has not yet occurred. What's critical to arresting the pervasive force of forgetting is *Retrieval Practice* (see [technique 7](#)) and *Cold Call* is the best way to build *Retrieval Practice* into your lessons. It allows you to make your *Retrieval Practice* speedy and energetic so you can do it frequently. Students like it and it allows you to maximize the number of students retrieving every answer. Denarius Frazier's video *Parts of a Circle* is an example of this: He has ensured long-term mastery of key geometric terms via *Retrieval Practice*, and the *Cold Calling* makes sure everyone is benefiting.

## Purpose 4: Pacing

Picture this scene from a classroom near you. Mr. K is reviewing a problem set from last night's homework. He says, “OK, who'd like to tell us how they answered number 2 on the homework?” Pause. Crickets. Finally, after five or six seconds, Natalie raises her hand. Unfortunately, Natalie also answered the previous question, so Mr. K tries another approach. “I'm seeing the same two or three hands,” he says, scanning slowly and awkwardly. “Do I need to remind you that participation is graded in my class?” Teachers waste a great deal of time—ten or fifteen seconds per question, perhaps, but hours and hours over the long run, doing what Mr. K is doing: pleading for someone to answer