lacking. Teachers read this boredom as a signal that students cannot or will not do more advanced work. They do more mundane work instead. A sort of death spiral ensues. The moments that have most frustrated my own children in school have been the moments when they have realized that lessons marked by tasks devoid of rigor were also what tomorrow and the next day would look like.8

Elsewhere in the school were a few classrooms led by a few masters and a shockingly large number of disorderly and chaotic classrooms where no learning happened because teachers lacked the tidy systems and carefully built expectations that the teacher I was observing had constructed. And yet here, in this promising teacher's room, an opportunity was lost. The teacher had lost sight of what a worthy lesson should look like—what its component parts should be. Perhaps her mental model was incomplete; perhaps she was just focused on other things.

At about this time I was reading about the power of checklists, “quick and simple tools aimed to buttress the skills of professionals,” as Atul Gawande puts it. A checklist is, in a sense, a reminder that ensures key aspects of the final product don't get left out. I found myself imagining a rigor checklist. A gut check teachers could use—even or perhaps especially when they were focused on other things like installing strong procedures—that would let them assess: Was this lesson worthy? Were the core things in place? Every lesson wouldn't need every piece, but over time if a teacher had to say, no, we didn't write today, no, we didn't read any challenging grade-level-or-above text, they would know they needed to make some changes.