execute procedures on their own. This sets up students for failure. With younger students you may wish to practice in isolation—that is, to separate the practice from the context in which it will be executed and be very deliberate: “Let's practice pushing in our chairs and getting ready to line up now.” We often see teachers with the most effective procedures using Pretend Practice—that is, distorting practice deliberately in ways that make it less realistic but more focused and effective at building skills. For a transition in an art room where there are lots of materials, you might start by having students practice without materials first to get the routine down and then add back in the crayons and the glue and the paint to make sure they can do it at full complexity—and full potential for spillage—when they already know their way through it.

## Here are some ways you might see Pretend Practice:

1. *Isolated step*. Sometimes teachers will choose just one small aspect of a procedure and practice it over and over or at half speed to make sure their students get it. Only then will they speed it up to real time or link it to the steps before and after it.

2. *Strategically simplified*. Sometimes a teacher will remove a distraction to make practice more effective—for example, by practicing a transition without books the first few times (“Imagine you're carrying your books”) or by practicing the process for putting materials away in art class without the actual supplies the first few times. That way students can lock in on the steps with simplicity and without pencils and crayons rolling around on the floor.