classroom feels valuable and productive. Trust for a teacher is in part an affirmation of their competence and diligence in building the right environment.

Second, successful teaching is at least as much the cause as the result of effective relationships. At a minimum the process is iterative. You demonstrate your respect for and belief in students by putting their time to good use. You show that you are worthy of their respect by creating a productive learning environment. As you do this you are warm, encouraging, and welcoming. You now have begun a relationship. It may form the foundation for a greater connection with some students; with others it will be sufficient. Chatting after class about your favorite shows with students is nice but not required and can distract you from the job at hand, teaching well, which is the primary tool by which teachers build relationships with students. “A relationship is a tool that helps students understand how to connect to the content,” Adeyemi Stembridge writes in Culturally Responsive Education in the Classroom. It’s supposed to be about them and what will help them learn and thrive, in other words, and that’s a key reminder because teachers’ needs are also met by relationships. We can at times fall prey to wanting too much to be needed or, worse, wanting to assume that our students lack something that only we can provide.

A skeptical reader once observed about previous editions of this book: “You don’t have a chapter about relationships, You must not think relationships are important.” But to me the whole book is about building relationships. A teacher who observes her students carefully, who notices and responds effectively when they struggle, and helps them see that they can be successful, is building relationships in a way that is not achieved by a teacher who gets frustrated and tells students to “figure it out.” Or even one who warmly and lovingly greets them every day but fritters