try to keep too much information in working memory, we will fail to remember it.

If we persist in overloading working memory we force ourselves to choose among the things we are trying to work on. For example, if you are driving and also trying to use working memory for another task—having a conversation on the phone with your partner about things to pick up at the store, for example—you are suddenly several times more likely to have an accident if you make a left turn across traffic. This has nothing to do with whether your phone use is “hands free.” The problem is not free hands but free working memory. A heavy load on working memory degrades your perception and you are less able to judge the approach of other vehicles. You perceive less from the environment when your working memory is taxed and more when it is free. This by itself has profound implications for teaching, one of which I’ll discuss in Chapter Two—the idea that effective preparation is designed to allow you to teach with less load on working memory. Or conversely that if you haven’t prepared well, your working memory will be hard at work trying to remember what comes next in the lesson and you will be less likely to see what’s happening in the classroom accurately.

A well-developed long-term memory is the solution to the limitations of working memory. If a skill, a concept, a piece of knowledge, or a body of knowledge is encoded in long-term memory, your brain can use it without degrading other functions that also rely on working memory. And long-term memory is almost unlimited. If our knowledge is encoded well and we are able to retrieve it, we can draw on it to inform our thinking and make connections. The scourge of the new-age educator, facts, mere facts, lots of them, encoded carefully in long-term memory and easily recalled through practice, are in fact the foundation of higher forms of cognition. You begin to think consciously