Danielle amidst a remarkable discussion by saying, “Habits of Discussion … Paraphrase … push it even further. Please track … Danielle.” She can't build *Habits of Discussion* (technique 44) without reminding students to use them and in particular to remember to restate Omar's point. She wants to call on Danielle. She wants to remind students to direct their eyes to the speaker. All of these things are important but she does not want to disrupt the momentum or distract from Omar's excellent comment, so she uses tiny reminder phrases. Ten words and perhaps three seconds and she's done it all.

## Principle 4: Quiet Presence

There's a tendency to think that louder is stronger, but this is usually not the case. For the most part, raised voices rarely correlate with better listening. You give a direction but there's a background noise of talking and shuffling of papers, for example. You increase your voice level to be heard above the bustle, but students get a little louder, too, and suddenly you sound like you are speaking through a bullhorn.

Going louder emphasizes the clamor and suggests to students that things are unraveling. Often raising your voice will increase the sense of tension, especially if you are speaking at a faster pace, too. If there is an opportunist in the group, this may signal that that you're getting flustered, and he or she may take the opportunity to goad you a bit—to see how flustered you'll get. Better to set out to modulate your voice as much as possible from the beginning or to progressively modulate it as you speak. If students are already noisy, starting to speak and then self-interrupting (see further on) can help you do that—to gain students' attention while demonstrating that you won't talk over noise. But often it's we who start the process. We speak in voices that suggest they expect to be broadcast