But warm demanders can be rare because so many people perceive high expectations, firmness, and relentlessness about academic content and firm discipline to be something you do, not because you love young people, but because, somehow, you don't. You are one or the other: caring or demanding. They are opposites. But of course this is an illusion. The magic lies in the correlation, in fact, in being the person who can be both at the same time, who can say *I believe in you and I care about you and therefore I will not accept anything but your best. You must rewrite the paragraph, complete the homework, apologize to a peer you have wronged—because you are worthy of as much*.

To do that is to push a student to be their very best.

You can get a glimpse of how those two apparently contradictory ideas live in harmony in watching a video we also saw in Chapter 11: Trona Cenac: *Register Shifts*. The video is shot on one of the first days of school and Trona is in the hallway, setting norms and expectations before students come into class. You can sense right away how glad she is to see her students and how glad they are to see her. She's warm, gracious, and caring—full of smiles and reassurance. But she's also really clear about what's expected of them and what they need to do to be successful. They need to come in, take a seat, and get started on their work with urgency. There's work to be done. It's not optional. Within this single interaction she tells students she cares about them and expects a lot from them—essentially at the same time.

A teacher like Trona includes the *come in, take a seat, get started right away* part because she cares deeply about her students. Being willing to do so is part of what adults who care for and about young people do. Certainly it would be easier for her not to shift into the *we have work to do, please sharpen up* mode, but to merely be adoring and