the two or three most engaged students in class, I might check in at point 4, high Think Ratio, low Participation Ratio.

Sadly it would be easier than I might think to get down to point 2: low PR, low TR. I could get there via a banal lesson plan yielding boring questions and bored students. But just as likely I could get there with a promising lesson and lack of attention to teaching technique. For example, if I allowed students to call out answers to questions, and the two or three most verbal students in my class proceeded to call out the first answer they could think of to each question, I would very quickly get to point 2. Even my two or three answerers weren’t thinking very hard and everyone else would have long since realized they weren’t answering and would be elsewhere, mentally. In that case I could be asking the most brilliant questions in the world. Two or three people answering them with half thought-out ideas is enough to render my perfect questions irrelevant.

The following three chapters are about increasing student understanding and knowledge—not to mention motivation and engagement—by taking three paths to point 1.

In [Chapter Seven]() we'll address how questioning skills can increase PR and TR. For example, if I can use *Means of Participation* to signal to my three highly verbal students that I’d like them to raise their hands unless otherwise indicated, I can suddenly slow things down and cause them to think more deeply about my questions. “Perhaps your first answer is not the best …” I say, and they stop to reconsider. Over time I teach them to think slowly and deeply. If I then begin *Cold Calling*, I can cause more students to share answers (even those who don’t at first volunteer readily) and even more students than that to answer in their heads in preparation of the fact that they