back. Notice how much the unexpectedness of it calls his attention. Putting the break in the middle of a word—as opposed to just after one—maximizes this effect. Notice also how Laura's body freezes. Her face goes very briefly expressionless and formal as she pauses, but a warmer expression replaces that “teacher look” when her student refocuses, and a second or so later she's back to teaching with the problem solved. (Notice, though, how she uses a **confirmation glance** afterwards to double-check that he remains focused.) Also in the montage you can see Eric Snider self-interrupting with his middle school students (and thus sparing them the lecture) as well as Sadie McCleary using the technique with high school students.

## Principle 6: Time and Place (Formerly *Do Not Engage*)

There are times when we initiate a topic of discussion with students that requires timely resolution on their part. There are times when those students may wish to avoid the timely resolution. Changing the subject is often one way to do that. This action may be deliberate or accidental, the result of distraction, intense emotion, or perhaps a bit of strategy.

Here's one example:

*Teacher:* James, we don't laugh when a classmate struggles. Please move your card to yellow.  
*James:* It wasn't me!  
*Teacher:* Please move your card to yellow.  
*James:* Shannon was laughing! Not me!  
*Teacher:* If you think I am mistaken you may discuss with me after class. Please get up and move your card to yellow.

It may be reasonable for the teacher to discuss who was talking with James, but the expectation needs to be that the