back is the key to both engaging the strengths of working memory and overcoming its limitations. Doing that requires strong pacing skills in terms of activity design and in terms of your ability to make shifts efficient and energizing and your instructional choices strike the balance between novelty and focus.

The first portion of Christine Torres's lesson where she is introducing new vocabulary words is a perfect example of this, especially because teaching new vocabulary words is, for many teachers, such a notoriously low-energy activity: “Here are our new words, please copy down the definitions.” Many teachers respond to this challenge by making the activity independent: “Go look up these words.” This can result in poorer understanding of the words and can take more time. But look at Christine's approach (you can watch this segment of her lesson a little over two minutes into the video in Christine Torres: Keystone). Her steps are:

- Identify the word and ask students to repeat it.
- Provide a definition.
- Ask students to read a situation involving the word (in this case “caustic.”) (What might a judge in American Idol have said if they made a caustic remark?)
- Ask students to Turn and Talk about the example.
- Briefly Cold Call to hear a few answers.
- Show a picture: “How does this image demonstrate the word ‘caustic’?” Turn and Talk again.
- Cold Call to hear answers.

The knowledge is disseminated via Direct Instruction and is followed by a different activity type (usually discussion in pairs) but the cycles are very short so the energy is