guide their final copy. But before that, we do demos with oil pastels. How to get a vibrant color. How to blend.”

You can see in the story how Nina builds up knowledge piece by piece, helping students to not only understand how to successfully create a larger complex work but also develop skills and knowledge they can apply in future paintings and drawings. In part, this is about managing student's working memory. By allowing them to apply all of their conscious thought in a sustained way to a smaller task she helps them make each element special and the overall result memorable. Certainly the resulting works were full of creativity and self-expression, but there's also such immense respect for the knowledge of craft implicit in being able to create and express. Did students enjoy it? Overwhelmingly. There was such a sense of competence and confidence. They knew how to create. And of course the degree to which one can bring one's creative vision to reality is a result of the knowledge and skill she has built.

Perhaps my perception is wrong, but I don't often see an approach like this used in art classrooms. Students are most often assigned a painting and they have a go at it all at once.

In her outstanding book *Making Good Progress*, Daisy Christodoulou makes a fascinating point. If teachers don't break down complex tasks into component parts, the alternative is to practice summative tasks as whole exercises. Sort of like doing whole landscape paintings over and over, except that in academic subjects the tasks often become very focused on tested outcomes. That is, teachers do over and over tasks that replicate what students will be assessed on in the end. “Assessment for learning [what teachers in the UK might call data-driven instruction] became excessively focused on exam tasks not just because of the pressures of accountability,” Christodoulou writes,