Thus the techniques in this chapter include *Wait Time* (how to build “thinking habits” in the moments after a question is asked and before answers are given) and *Cold Call* (which among other things ensures that all students feel that they might be called on to answer and therefore engage fully in thinking about questions). I’ll also discuss *Call and Response*, which can help build norms of engaged participation, and *Means of Participation*, which is a reflection on the overlooked step of communicating to students how you will ask them to answer questions. Finally, I will discuss *Break It Down*, the process of using additional questions to help students when they are stuck.

## Basic Guidance for Question Writing

Of course how you craft your questions matters, so before going deeper into these techniques for building ratio through questioning, I’m going to share notes on writing better questions that focus on two things: preparation and purpose.

1. **Preparation:** It is difficult to think of a great question in the midst of teaching. You need your working memory elsewhere. Either your question or something else will likely suffer if you try to think of the perfect way to unlock the irony of Jane Austen’s prose in the moment your students are reading it. Whenever possible, plan and write your questions out in advance—either the exact ones you will ask or key questions you *might* ask. Even a first draft helps. If you change it in the midst of the lesson that’s a good thing: that a second draft improves on a first draft does not mitigate the value of the earlier draft.

2. **Purpose:** The purpose is not to ask questions; the purpose is to use questions to elicit different types of thinking. A question is a means to an end, so if your