([technique 12](#)) that makes students willing participants in the task of learning from their mistakes.

*Arielle Hoo* (North Star Vailsburg Middle School) asks her students to write at a key moment in the lesson about how they’ll know a solution is correct. Notice the word “conjectures”—it's a great example of a formative prompt that not only makes it safe to be wrong but socializes students to think of writing as something you do to discover new insights, not just explain them. This is a key aspect of *Everybody Writes* ([technique 38](#)). Notice the *Silent Solo* ([technique 39](#)): Everyone is writing right away. Notice how the exemplary discussion she has, full of keen insights and technical vocabulary, starts with her, like Denarius, moving to “Pastore's Perch” and using *Radar and Be Seen Looking* ([technique 53](#)) to ensure that everyone is with her. Sidney kicks off the discussion (so well!) and the eye contact and pro-social body language she receives ([technique 48](#), *Habits of Attention*) remind her—and everyone else—that *what you are saying is important*. Next Sadie speaks, hesitating while using the technical term *coincidental* to describe two lines. Possibly it's the first time he's used this term. Notice how he persists and takes the risk of doing so. The *Habits of Attention* help but so do a larger nexus of Procedures and Routines ([Chapter Ten](#)): No one shouts out the answer or waves their own hand in the air or says anything distracting while he struggles for the right word. The sequence ends with students revising their original conjectures in writing, an example of the revision you can read about in both *Front the Writing* and *Regular Revision* ([techniques 40 and 42](#)).

*Sadie McCleary* (Western Guilford High School): Sadie’s Pacing ([Chapter Six](#)) and *Means of Participation* ([technique 36](#)) are brilliant—perhaps the latter leading to the former—and I discuss them both at length later in the book, not to mention her *Board = Paper* ([technique 22](#)), *Turn and Talk*