profound. This is why singing—and choral group singing specifically—is so often a part of worship all over the world.

Hammond also clarifies something fundamental about American—and Western—societies. We are ardent individualists. She cites Dutch psychologist Geert Hofstede's Cultural Dimensions Index, which includes a ranking of every country in the world according to its level of individualism in society. The United States is at the far end of the spectrum (with the UK not far behind). We are the most individualist—or the least collectivist—society on earth. This has its benefits—rugged can-do, get-it-done self-reliance is generally a good thing—but it also raises some questions. The first is what it is like to engage in the schools of an anomalously individualistic society if you come from a less individualistic one. Part of being responsive to students from other cultures is understanding that they have a more group-oriented view of the world. All that *me* and *you* can seem strange when you are accustomed to *we*.

A second question is what wisdom there is for our ardently individualistic schools in a more collective approach. Collective knowledge, group reliance, and identity derived through shared endeavor are in fact good things for learning. They make our schools more inclusive and increase the sense of belonging.

As I discuss in *Habits of Attention*, to feel a part of something is one of the most profound motivators in the world, as Daniel Coyle points out in *The Culture Code*. And we rarely change our minds about something we believe to be true unless we feel a strong sense of connection to the person sharing information that might cause us to change, Jonathan Haidt explains in *The Righteous Mind*. Our beliefs are a reflection of who we feel like we belong with. We take