when it is truly earned and use acknowledgment freely to reinforce expectations.

It's important to add that, as with any technique, it is essential here that you deeply know your students. There may be students for whom completing a homework assignment is, in fact, extraordinary. When that is the case, a more private moment in which you praise and appreciate the effort it may have taken for that student to set themselves up for success and to establish a new and better habit is more than warranted, it is desirable. What you want to avoid is public praise for a behavior that, for most students, is not out of the ordinary at all.

## Modulate and Vary Your Delivery

Because teachers most often give reinforcement, positive and negative, in a public setting (that is, in a room with twenty-five other people in it), it's critical to be attentive to the degree to which a statement engages others in the room: Is it loud or quiet, public or private? Do others overhear it?

Generally, privacy is beneficial with critical feedback. As I discuss in [Chapter Eleven](#), whispered or nonverbal reminders assume the best about students: they allow them to self-correct without being called out in public. The private individual correction discussed in [technique 55](#), *Least Invasive Intervention*, is a classic example of this. But what about the reverse? Should praise therefore be loud? Turns out it's not quite that simple. Positive reinforcement works best when it is genuine and memorable. To make it memorable, you'll want it to stand out a bit, keeping its format a bit unpredictable.

A bit of public praise can be powerful—you stop the class to read Shanice's sentence aloud and say to the class, “Now that is how a strong, active verb can give muscle to a