Teacher 2: (same setting) I need two people paying attention at this table. Some people don't appear to be listening. This table also has some students who are not paying attention to my directions. I'll wait, gentlemen, and if I have to give consequences, I will.

In the first teacher's classroom, things appear to be moving in the right direction because the teacher narrates the evidence of student follow-through, of students doing as they're asked, of things getting done. He calls his students' attention to this fact, thereby normalizing it. He doesn't praise when students do what he asks, but merely acknowledges or describes. He wants them to know he sees it, but he also doesn't want to confuse doing what's expected with doing *great*. If I am sitting in this classroom and seek, as most students do, to be normal, I now sense the normality of positive, on-task behavior and will likely choose to do the same.

The second teacher is telling a different story. Things are going poorly and getting worse. He's doing his best to call our attention to the normality of his being ignored and the fact that this generally occurs without consequence. The second teacher is helping students to see negative norms as they develop and, in broadcasting his anxieties, making them even more visible and prominent as well. In a sense he's creating a self-fulfilling prophecy: he narrates negative behavior into being.

“To modify motivation,” writes Peps Mccrea, “change what … pupils see.” If teachers make *desirable norms* (people doing positive things) more visible to students they will be more likely to join with them. Mccrea calls this *elevating visibility*. To elevate visibility of a norm you want more people to follow, increase their *profusion*—the proportion of students who appear to follow them—and their *prominence*—how much you notice when people do it.