switches to *Call and Response* to reinforce the importance of freezing point and boiling point and her students seem to read her mind, responding crisply and in unison. She switches back to *Cold Call* to assess how well students have understood the Kelvin scale and yet again things run almost perfectly to plan—she's easily able to sample the room and involve any student. An eager hand-raiser in the front corner really wants to say his piece. Some teachers might need to rely on him to drive the conversation—his is the only hand up at the moment —but not Sadie. The eager hand-raiser waits patiently—and does not call out—as she *Cold Calls* a few more students and then asks for volunteers, which she gets easily. There's no awkward pleading for more or different students to raise their hands. When Sadie asks them to take notes, students update their tidy and organized notes seamlessly.

The lesson seems to gallop along and yet it seems relatively effortless for Sadie, standing there at the front of the room, smiling graciously.

Sadie's lesson is so successful because of her clarity about what to do when. For students in her class, there are a series of familiar routines for how content will be engaged and there is no ambiguity about which routine to use when. We call these routines for engagement the *Means of Participation*. Investing time in planning them and ensuring that which you’ll use when is clear to students makes you more likely to find yourself like Sadie: smiling in the midst of a class bursting with energy and productivity.

Routines are important. They “hack the attention economy in the classroom and help pupils learn hard things faster,” writes Peps Mccrea, and allow working memory to focus on the academic task rather than the process for doing that task, which has become familiar and habitual. On the 100th *Turn and Talk* when you say, “With your partner, how does