students are completing independent work, glance thoughtfully at what they're doing.

In those cases it can be useful to try to mix and match these types of interactions as you Circulate:

*Simple walk-by.* You walk by a student's desk slowly enough to show that you are monitoring what she's doing but without engaging more extensively.

*Tap/nonverbal.* You have a brief, unspoken interaction, perhaps just adjusting a student's paper by a fraction of an inch to show you are observing his work, say, or perhaps using a quick nonverbal—a thumbs-up for good progress, a traveling gesture for “C'mon, keep going.”

*Basic read/review.* You stop and make a point of reading or reviewing what a student is working on while it is on their desk. You might comment on what a student has written, but you don't necessarily have to. Reading a student's work, alone, is a powerful message.

*Pick-up read.* You stop and pick up a student's paper and read what she is working on, intimating an even greater level of interest in or scrutiny of her work. They will be watching you now so your facial expression is critical. Generally, I think, benign interest is best. *I am reading this because I care about your ideas.* Manage your tell (see [technique 12](#), *Culture of Error*) and don't give too much away until you decide to give feedback. If you can't think of anything to say, try: “Keep going.”

These last two options are especially important. Reading, assessing, and responding to student work in “real time” are indispensable to checking for understanding, showing your interest in students' work, and setting a tone of accountability—all functions that are critical to your ability to provide academic support and rigor (“Try that one again,