perfectly. The message is *This has to be just right so you can all get it down perfectly.*

Sadie models a two-part process in which students include both “content' and “commentary” in their notes. She shows them how to write down elements of the lesson and how to mark them up with their own thoughts and reminders. At one point you can see Sadie model for her students how and where to include marginalia and commentary, such as labeling one part of the equation “initial” and adding side notes about how to use the formula: “It must be the same gas” and “No added or removed particles.”

Here's a side note about the video, based on a conversation that came up in our team's screening of the video: *How can we prepare students to take notes on laptops in college?* One of the most important parts of this video to me is that Sadie is modeling handwritten notes. Recent data10 has made it pretty clear that handwriting your notes leads to greater recall than typing your notes. You remember more, think more deeply, and are less likely to be distracted by other things that pop up when your laptop is open. The more students work by hand, the better, so I think my response is to prepare students not to take notes on laptops, if possible. I'd be transparent about this, and remind them of the benefits of handwriting their notes—presently and when they get to college and in a university setting.11

Seeing Sadie's work with her high school Chemistry students is powerful, but as I noted before *Board = Paper* involves “progressive habits that build up from the primary to the university years.” What skills and habits should a classroom reinforce when students are younger?

Begin with the idea that students should know to track what the teacher is writing on the board. When a teacher