How we ask a question can help ensure that it is worth trying to answer from the perspective of the listener; the question's structure can have a significant influence on the degree of thinking and answering it inspires.  
Understanding a few “phrasing fundamentals” can help make sure your questions engage your students as you'd hope they would.

## The Obvious Trap

One reason students don't answer or think about questions is because they don't seem worth answering, often because they are either rhetorical—the teacher doesn't really expect an answer—or, worse, so obvious that they seem rhetorical. You might call this *the obvious trap*. Questions with obvious answers are killers of intellectual culture because they pretend to ask a question when there's really no question. *Why are you asking me that?* students think. If you're often asked meaningless questions, you become skeptical of the questioner. Students become reluctant to answer under those circumstances. When everyone clearly knows the answer, the person who gives that answer aloud appears to be a fool: oblivious and overeager. Sometimes we seek to start a discussion with an “easy” question, for example, but because the answer seems so obvious, participants are reluctant to answer, perhaps thinking they've missed something or that it was actually a trick question. The effect is the opposite of the intent. We kill the culture from the outset. In the long run, too. Over time, asking questions with obvious answers undercuts the credibility of your questioning more broadly.

Yes/no questions and questions with just two possible answers are especially vulnerable to *the obvious trap*. And, obvious or not, they often reduce the quality of the learning environment because one-word answers are the natural response.