In a recent social media post I asked teachers for insights on how they thought about joy in the classroom. How did they create “productive joy”? I asked. I used the phrase to stress the idea that what we sought was joy that served learning. That seemed obvious to me. “Sounds controlling,” one skeptic responded. She wanted to know why I felt the need to make it “productive” and to dictate the terms of someone else's happiness. But I hope it is obvious to the great majority of teachers that the goal is to achieve joy *in the tasks of learning*. If we don't seek to make joy a cause of as much learning as possible and the maximum amount of learning joyful, we have lost our way. But of course there is the risk that the fun runs away from us and we forget that it is there to serve the learning. Happily it is not only possible to do both, but the goals are just possibly synergistic. People generally like learning things. Don't play *Jeopardy!* unless it is rigorous enough to support learning, but also know that if it is challenging and engaging, joy will be more likely to arise from it.

Let me apply the conversation about flow and belonging to an additional source of classroom joy: humor is immensely beneficial to creating joy—we almost always smile when we laugh, and we often remember the joke forever (see note 7 in this chapter for an example). But *small recurring inside jokes* are especially powerful because of the way they maximize belonging and flow: Christine Torres joking about her excellent singing; a nickname for a character in history (one teacher called Orsino in *Twelfth Night* “wet wipe” because he was so spineless compared to the female leads in the play⁶); or consider my high school history teacher, Mr. Gilhool, who was the master of the inside joke: he (and soon we) always referred to the city of “Amsterdarn” to civilize its “vulgar” name; he dramatized Count von Schlieffen on his deathbed advising Bismarck “to keep the West strong” and afterwards anytime anyone mentioned