group may need a separate intervention; if the class kind of gets it, but is a bit unsure, then focus on areas of uncertainty for homework or during regular ten-minute slots for a few weeks; if *Exit Tickets* reveal the class to be very secure about a certain topic, then schedule a refresher in a week or two, but don't give this topic too much time, as there will be better things to use it for. In short, responding to *Exit Tickets* is often about being entrepreneurial with time.

Alexa Miller, a fourth-grade teacher in New York, addressed that theme as well, saying that she leaves *Exit Tickets* in student mailboxes to be corrected the next morning. This works well for elementary teachers, because students can fix mistakes during breakfast while the teacher Circulates to assist and recheck. This extra step in the screening process for remediation helps keep groups small.

There was a great piece of planning advice from a champion teacher whose lessons I'd watched multiple times. Heather Snodgrass of Nashville advised: “[I] write the *Exit Ticket* first, before planning out any other parts of the lesson. This helps me focus in on the key points that are essential to conveying the most important content, and occasionally helps me refine the objective so I'm honing in on a manageable and appropriately rigorous skill.” She added, “I also like having a consistent routine for students who frequently finish their *Exit Tickets* very quickly. One I've used for math is having students write their own problems about the skill we've learned that day. Students also like this if they get an opportunity to solve each other's problems.”

**Notes**