concentrate on the most important parts of the text by giving them something concrete to pay attention to while reading.

One important caveat on annotation tasks: It’s easy to make the annotation task too complex or too vague. What we want is a task that clearly reveals whether students understood, not just the gist, but the specific language of the passage. The task should therefore be specific to understanding a particular section of text rather than the application of a universal skill. “In this paragraph, underline the three ways memory can be manipulated or changed” is better than “In this paragraph underline three examples of figurative language.” A student can complete the second task and not understand what they’ve read. The goal in designing annotation tasks is to give yourself data on whether students understood with precision what the author is trying to say so you know how much they can read on their own.

One benefit of short and medium doses of AIR is that they allow you to integrate reading into the arc of your lesson and send the message that independent reading is one of the ways we engage content together during class and not just something we do after class and on our own. To have everyone read a passage independently and then discuss it or write about it makes reading a part of the learning process. As Nicholas Hermann’s video shows, this is especially valuable outside of reading classes. Learning to read the discourse of the sciences independently and seeing reading as intrinsic to the process of learning about science is a necessity for any STEM career, for example.

A last thought on AIR. Does it always look like this? Must you always methodically assess students' readiness and release them only to what you know they can do successfully? No. The accountability is something you often