1. **Grammatical format** involves asking students to phrase (or rephrase) their answers in Standard English.
2. **Complete sentence format** involves asking students to expand answers into full phrases or complete sentences to ensure they get extensive oral practice at sentence and complex syntax formation.
3. **Audible format** involves reminding students to speak audibly. The value of students' ideas is undercut if no one can hear them.
4. Finally I propose an idea called **Collegiate format**. Informed by Basil Bernstein's research on elaborated code, the idea is to prepare students for some of the particular demands of college and university by pushing for comfort not just with “Standard English” but the form of language, more formal and distinctive still, frequently encountered in an academic setting.

## Grammatical Format

When students make grammatical errors (that is, variations from Standard) in class, they are often unconscious of them. Our goal should be to help them to hear when this happens and know how to correct the errors.10 They will be able to assess them themselves. And we want them to build habits so that when they are in the classroom Standard English comes to them naturally. An understanding of working memory tells us that if students have to consciously translate while they are speaking, the effort required to do so will interfere with other uses for working memory. We want our students to not have to use up scarce working memory thinking about how to say something so that it can instead be focused on thinking and perceiving.

If habit is the goal, then it is not enough just to tell a student that they have made an error; it's better to ask