and volume problems, but shifting the format of the way students interact with the problems at just the right rate—from *Turn and Talk* to *Cold Call* to (later) note-taking—maximizes engagement and attention. Perhaps the optimal balance of these things is the source of “flow.”

The keys to pacing, then, often lie in mastering both students' perception of time and the tension between attention and novelty. Sadie's switches between activities (from writing to *Turn and Talk*, say) were invariably crisp, so students never lost focus. A long and highly narrated transition might disrupt the ideas they were holding in working memory, but careful attention to the transitions ensures that important ideas are sustained in working memory even when activities change. Clear, bright lines between activities contribute in other ways, too. Because the end of one activity and the beginning of the next are so distinct, it makes novelty, the introduction of a new activity, easier to see. And what's more, students can sense their own progress as they move from one task to another. This, too, is motivating. Here's an analogy: driving your car at 60 miles per hour on the interstate does not feel fast. Your experience is one of continued sameness—a smudge of trees or houses in the distance and the consistency of an unbroken stretch of guardrail. But drive at that rate on a narrow road or in a settled neighborhood and you suddenly feel like you are racing along. The smudge of houses in the distance becomes, in fact, one house and then another and then another. When you distinguish them each whipping past, they become like mileposts that indicate to you that something has come and gone. They create an illusion that multiplies your perception of your own progress. A teacher like Sadie often does something similar: the more she creates mileposts, the more her students realize a new task has come and gone, and she uses this to enhance the influence of novelty bias.