writing exercises with technique 42, *Regular Revision*, to ensure a strong balance of exploration and accuracy.

But *Art of the Sentence* also often includes additional constraints and parameters that make the practice deliberate and cause students to focus on using specific syntactic tools. They also make the exercises even more interesting.

For example, Jamila might have asked her students to write a single sentence about the dog in the picture but begin with the phrase “Looking at the dog …” She would then cause students to practice using a sophisticated grammatical form—an introductory participial phrase. Or she could have asked them to start their sentence with: “When one looks at a dog like this …” Now she’d be causing them to use “one” as the subject. If students are going to read sentences like that, creating them intentionally can help a lot.

Or Jamila could have asked students to start “At first glance …” Now students would be using an introductory prepositional phrase, but she would also cause them to look at the picture twice. What did you not see at first that a second glance reveals?

Previously in her lesson Jamila had given students a nonfiction article to read about the history of animal-human bonds and the domestication of dogs. She could have asked students to “Write a single sentence describing how your reaction to the dog might explain some of the reasons why dogs became domesticated early on in human history. Use the word ‘bond.’ Or quote a word or phrase from the article in your sentence.”

Rules like these allow you to deliberately choose words, phrases, or grammatical forms for students to practice using. Over time students develop facility with a wide