them. Occasionally, when she is especially eager for hands, she communicates that to her students by saying “Hands!” or raising her own. When she wants *Call and Response*, she says, “Tell me” and students understand that signal. When she says “With your partners,” everyone knows a *Turn and Talk* is coming, and they know exactly how to engage their partner. Because Sadie has established these cues to make her *Means of Participation* clear, the room quickly comes to life whenever she asks a question.

In many classrooms, however, teachers ask students questions without signaling clearly in what format they should answer. When students have to wonder *Should I raise my hand? Can I call out? Was that question rhetorical? Should I write that down?* you get hesitation, confusion, and lack of follow-through instead of the crackling intellectual energy of Sadie's classroom. You get classrooms where teachers ask very good questions, but the same few students hesitantly call out answers again and again. Or classrooms where the teacher will ask a question and then after a few seconds of apparent impassivity from students, answer it herself. As I pointed out in the introduction to ratio, it doesn't matter how good the question is if only two or three students bother to answer it. *Means of Participation* is the signaling system by which you switch clearly and transparently among the formats in which students can answer, like *Cold Call*, taking volunteers, and *Turn and Talk* so everyone answers productively and confidently.

The word “default” here describes the basic rules of participation that are always in place in Sadie's classroom unless she signals otherwise. These are: raise your hand, don't call out, and know that I may ask you your opinion via *Cold Call*.