Or (to emphasize openness to new ideas): “Take a minute to jot down the ways your perspective changed in the course of the discussion.”

This would also be a great occasional application of *Art of the Sentence* (technique 41):

“Great discussion. Two minutes now to capture your most important takeaway in one carefully crafted sentence.”

Or, “Great discussion. Two minutes to capture the two differing points of view we heard in one complete sentence.”

Of course you don't have to be a purist about using *Art of the Sentence*. *Silent Solo* could suffice. “Two minutes to capture the three key historical events we discussed and how they were connected. Go!”

I prefer writing over *Turn and Talk*, though. Writing encodes ideas more deeply in memory—we remember what we think about, Daniel Willingham tells us, and writing is usually a harder form of thinking than talking. Plus it leaves students with a written record they can refer back to.

Interestingly, in her Keystone, Arielle Hoo concludes her class discussion of parallel overlapping lines with a written summary, but she makes it a shared class activity. She provides a sentence starter and various students contribute ideas. She refines and selects from among them, creating a summary that is superior in content to what any single student could have created. Students then copy this down as their record of the proceedings. My team and I call this sort of written summary—one that’s both a shared creation and curated by the teacher, one that results in an exemplar of higher quality than any individual might produce—a