It's worth noting, too, that there might be cases in which you'd want to vary your cadence, tone, and inflection when framing a question. For example, if I thought the question was especially challenging and thoughtful and wanted students to think carefully as or before they began to *Turn and Talk*, I might give my directions with a slower cadence and a reflective tone. I watched Rue Ratray (then of Edward Brooke Charter School in Boston) do this masterfully in one of his lessons recently. Students were reading an interview with Lois Lowry about her novel *The Giver*; and came upon a sentence that required close reading. “I agree with Nijah,” Rue said. “We do need to break down the phrase ‘Rejecting the authority and wisdom of the governing body.’ What does that mean?” he asked. He spoke slowly and tilted his head slightly in apparent befuddlement. He paused for a few seconds to let the question sink in. Then: “*Turn and Talk* to your partner. Go!” As he said this the class came to life. The phrase Rue used, “*Turn and Talk* to your partner. Go!” was central to this success. It was familiar because he'd been using it steadily for weeks as he dispatched them to *Turn and Talks*. But here he combined it with a bit of *Wait Time* beforehand … four or five seconds to begin reflecting before they spoke. Denarius Frazier, too, uses a long stretch of *Wait Time* before his crisp cue to *Turn and Talk* at the beginning of his Keystone to set a cerebral and reflective tone.

If the transition into *Turn and Talk* is crisp and the routine familiar, you can cue up a *Turn and Talk* on the spur of the moment. Notice how the *Turn and Talk* unfolds in the video *Alonte Johnson: Mother's Courage* during Alonte's lesson on on Edna St. Vincent Millay's poem “The Courage That My Mother Had.” Alonte's *Turn and Talk* is unplanned—a reaction to the small number of hands he sees when he asks his question. He thinks—Ah! They're reticent. I'll let them talk it out to build their ideas and their confidence.