> fortune-a tale  
> 17 worth hearing, no doubt!"

## Goal 3: A Clear Road Map

When you have a million things on your mind, it's easy to overlook an activity, forget a question, or neglect a topic that you intended to cover. Because *Double Plan* packets provide teachers with such a clear road map about what they and students should do at every step, teachers are less likely to let activities slip through the cracks or to shortchange important content.

On a similar note, when you script your questions into your packets, it also holds you accountable to ask them in the same form that you planned. This prevents you from unintentionally diluting the rigor of your planned questions or leading students astray with tangential prompts (for more information, see [Chapter Nine](#)). The same holds true for *What to Do* directions: The more clearly you script those into your packets, the easier it will be to ensure that students do what you planned, in the manner you intended.

## Goal 4: Standardize the Format

Well-designed packets *Standardize the Format* (see [technique 8](#)). Everyone in Christine's class answers question number 6 in the same place and she can circulate quickly and easily and get a strong sense of what they are writing about because she's always looking in the same place. It makes it easier to move quickly and to compare students' written work with her exemplars, which she's written in the same place into her own packet. What they're doing is mirrored on her page. The demands on working memory are reduced and her capacity to observe accurately is increased.