on this graph that we know ... [pause for everyone to think] ... Jahiem?"

Again we see Aidan's mastery of creating an environment characterized by a supportive tone but that also ensures that Jahiem is caused to get lots and lots of practice at something he hasn't yet mastered. “You're just using the wrong language,” he says when Jahiem struggles. There's no judgment or frustration in his tone. If anything, he's reminding Jahiem that he's closer than he thinks, but he avoids the temptation to gloss over his mistake (e.g. “You meant to say ‘y-intercept,’ right?”) and instead causes Jahiem to use the correct term.

Still Jahiem guesses wrong. Aidan goes to Tavon for the answer (0,2), and then returns again with a *Cold Call*, informed by the previous question Jahiem could not answer. It's still part of the *No Opt Out* in my mind —“That's called the what, Jahiem?” Jahiem's a little flummoxed, but once DJ gives Aidan the correct answer, he circles back to Jahiem and another student, CD, to make sure they lock in the term and, incidentally, hear themselves getting it right.

Throughout this sequence of events Aidan's tone remains warm and supportive. His positivity and equanimity show students that this *No Opt Out* is an expression of caring from an adult who seeks to ensure that they solidify their knowledge and help them succeed.

One thing you've probably noticed about the classrooms in which we've studied *No Opt Out* is the larger culture. Denarius has clearly established a climate of trust with his students. In both cases his students give full effort on the initial question and on the return. In Aidan Thomas’s and