a problem. Julia doesn't tell students which one is correct. The goal is for students to discern which solution is correct and why—or for them to be able to look and perceive what mathematical tool will work. Notice how focused on perception Julia's questions are: “What did Monet do on the left?” The first student Julia calls on does not correctly perceive the strategy Monet is using and Julia's response is powerful. “What did she do in this first line here?” She still hasn't told them the answer; she's just helping them know where to see it.

*Show Call* can also work by asking students to use comparative judgment—it can place two examples close together and ask students to discern the differences. When the next student describes Monet's first step correctly, Julia labels it. Now that they can see the math, she wants to associate a name with it. “Let's write that in our notes: expand,” Julia says. Now they can see what it looks like and associate it with its technical name. Then another perception question: “Once she [Monet] expanded, what did she do then?” And then for the other side, Julia again asks a perception-based question, “What did she do?” To perceive is to understand. Now that they understand the steps Monet took in each case, students have to decide which solution was more useful. Julia goes to a *Turn and Talk* ([technique 43](#)) and then uses *Show Me* ([technique 10](#)).

In the video *Rousseau Mieze: Source Line*, you can observe Rousseau *Show Calling* two examples of student work and asking the class to discern why one of them is stronger than the other. Once again this demonstrates how *Show Call* can be especially powerful when it asks students to compare examples because it leverages the power of a cognitive principle called “the law of comparative judgment”—simply put, this is the idea that people are better at making comparisons between pieces of work than at making absolute judgments about quality. Humans are