This is no small thing. These students are fifth graders. The various stages in their development as readers are passing quickly. Compare lots and lots of joyful practice for a developing reader to the alternative: the encroaching feeling for such a reader that reading is a source of embarrassment, something she will never be good at, something he wants to avoid. This can be, and is, a self-fulfilling prophecy for thousands of students.

A final note. Earlier I noted that one of the things I liked about the name *FASE Reading* is that a phase is a stage in a series of events. *FASE Reading* ideally is combined with and embedded in other classroom activities, such as five minutes of *FASE Reading* to bring the text to life and then a bout of writing about a text that seems vivid. Or ten minutes of silent reading with the text voice and setting brought to life. Or a discussion of the book we all just read. Imagine how much richer the discussion of *To Kill a Mockingbird* will be in Maggie's class after her students have heard the story come to life through Maggie's and Arshe's and Ronnie's readings. There's a lot more depth to respond to. Imagine also how much more likely they will be to pick up the book and read it that night for homework when it made them laugh together as a group that afternoon in school.

# TECHNIQUE 25: CIRCULATE

Where you stand as you work is a critical aspect of your teaching. It shapes the information you gather about students and helps determine the types of interactions you can use to guide and support them.

Can you stand naturally at a student's shoulder as she solves a problem correctly for the first time, quietly encouraging her and preserving her privacy: “Yes, that's it,” or “Much better,” or “Now you've got it!”?