listening sufficient? They'll be a lot more successful if you tell them what to listen for (examples of irony) and if you plan for them to be jotting notes while you read. You might even think about where they should jot those notes. Their actions while you're teaching are key drivers of how much students learn, this is to say, so it should be part of the planning process.

For teachers like Christine that often means not just planning for students to answer a given question in writing, say, but providing a specific place that communicates to students, in its design or in the directions, whether they are casually brainstorming—in which case the packet might include bullets or a box with no lines—or writing multisentence paragraphs—in which case she would surely want not only lines (and enough of them to communicate her expectations for length) but perhaps a space for outlining as well. A packet like Christine's does this. It translates her plan into a document students can work from directly to ensure efficiency and simplicity. There's space to take notes and a reminder of what to take notes about.

Do you have to have a packet, then? No. Would high school students preparing for college be better served by the experience of note-taking sometimes, often, or perhaps always? Yes. But the lesson should still be double planned, perhaps via a sort of T-chart in which the teacher's actions are described on the left side and what students should be doing on the right.

Still, don't sleep on the packet. Its value is high—a fact that's mildly ironic because some educators dismiss materials copied and given to students as “worksheets” and presume that implies banality and superficiality. A reminder then: The means by which instructional materials are reproduced and disseminated has no correlation to their quality.