sometimes but the reasons they are not a form of *Cold Call* are important and I want to take a moment to explain them.

The first reason is that sticks aren't strategic. Intentionality—whom you call on and when—matters. You choose to call on Daniella or Domari because they have a great answer or because they've been quiet or because they are often confused in similar situations or because they are your “still waters run deep” students (the ones who never volunteer, yet jaws often drop after their unexpected, insightful comments). Earlier I discussed the importance of deciding whom you will *Cold Call* and why. *Cold Call* is rarely actually random, though it may appear to be so from the students' perspective.

In fact, it's often beneficial to *communicate this intentionality to students*. Using a random generator makes it explicit that you are not making intentional decisions about who to call on, but this is often the most important part. For example, to say: “David, what are you thinking?” tells David that you value his unique opinion and are thinking about his perspective at that moment. To use sticks is to say, “Anyone can go next. It’s all about the same to me.” There is no longer anything special about David being asked his opinion, then; a popsicle stick made the choice.13 The message of inclusiveness—your voice matters—and voice equity is not communicated by randomness.

One other key difference is efficiency. Getting out the popsicle or lolly sticks takes time. Each time you pull one (“Oh, boy! Let’s see who it is! Whoops, Jaden’s not here …”) takes time. And it interrupts the flow of normal conversation. It’s hard for Amari to truly build off and elaborate on Janelle’s point if there’s a carnival event in between.

Again, I am not saying not to use popsicle sticks. One benefit is that they are psychologically easy and don’t