review key events from the previous day's reading and reflect on important characters' motivations to give context to the final scenes of the book. She uses rich and engaging Because, But, So questions—a method I discuss in *Art of the Sentence* (technique 41) that comes from Judith Hochman and Natalie Wexler's book *The Writing Revolution*—to build the complexity of students' thinking. You can see how engaging students found it in the enthusiasm and rigor of their comments in the discussion. But notice how briskly Sarah moves through the review. Her goal is an attentive and enthusiastic discussion but not a long one. It's so easy to assume that the discussion deserves more time given all the enthusiasm, but by keeping her discussion tidy Sarah transfers energy to the next task.

Since the Do Now is a consistent procedure we want students to follow every day, it's important to reinforce process and expectations. In the video *Christine Torres: Silently to Seats* you can see Christine Torres do this, appreciatively and quietly naming students as they meet expectations in completing this Do Now. Here's what her students are working on, by the way. It's designed to build background knowledge for the passage from the novel *Number the Stars* that students will study in class that day (in which the protagonist journeys through the woods).

Christine reminds us, as Tom Bennett observes in *Running the Room*, that the best time to reinforce expectations is when students are doing things well. “One of the most underused strategies is to reinforce norms when they are happening,” he writes. Especially when they're going well. “Calm, quiet, and settled” is the ideal emotional state for receiving guidance on how to do things.