choose A to explain. Note that he is withholding the answer and managing his tell (see *Culture of Error*)—students still don't know which is the right answer. Finally, after a student comfortably and confidently changes her answer, Denarius confirms that A was correct. His use of *Show Me* has allowed him to efficiently poll the room multiple times, note trends in data, and determine which students he should call on when.

In the video *Lisa Wing: Boom, Boom, Pow*, you can see Lisa using hand signals with her seventh graders. She's asked them to evaluate three anonymous thesis paragraphs written by class members. She reinforces the fun and engaging procedure (*boom, boom, pow*) and gets really crisp, timely follow-through. She then follows up with questioning, asking students to discuss their opinions. It's a nice example and suggests how you could even ask students to use hand signals to respond to a question for which answers were a matter of opinion. By the way, it's also a great clip because there's so much “reality of the classroom” baked in. Not only do we get to see Lisa's gracious response when she calls on a student who's lost his voice, but there's a story playing out between the two girls in the front row at the beginning of the clip. One girl is proudly telling her friend that one of the paragraphs chosen as an example is hers! It's a lovely scene that reminds us how meaningful it is for students to see their work valued, but it should also remind us how easy it is for students to influence the answers other students give if the procedure for hand signals isn't crisp. The student could just as easily be “helping” her classmate by telling her, “Pick #2.”

## Slates

Slates is another form of *Show Me* in which students complete their work at their desk and then, on a signal,