The first thing Arielle does is to look. She gives her directions and, instead of looking down at her notes or at the board, she takes a second to scan the room, right to left. This lets her confirm that students are following her directions. If they're not, she'd want to adjust. Perhaps she wasn't clear enough and she'd want to regive her directions with a bit of assuming the best: “Whoops, let me be a little clearer… .” Perhaps they're a little giddy and she'll want to slow her voice slightly to set a calmer tone. For sure, she won't want to push on too fast if students are showing signs of distraction. Either way, the lesson is that a teacher can manage only what she sees so actions that allow you to see more clearly and comprehensively are critical. Actions that allow teachers to see well constitute a critical set of skills and one that is too rarely talked about. I call such actions *Building Radar*.

To return to Arielle's classroom, and her glance up at her class to see whether they've followed through, what her action tells students in that moment is at least as important as what she learns from looking. Her message is: I care whether you do what I asked. I will notice whether you do so or not. When we show that it matters to us, it matters more to students. Just by looking, and having students know that we look, we make it more likely that they will follow through; perhaps in part because we've eliminated some gray area, but more likely because we've simply shown that it matters. If you have a strong relationship with students, this will be profoundly influential. If you are still building it, the clarity and competence you show will help earn their trust and respect.

A brief digression here before I return to the second thing Arielle does. Watch the very short video of fourth-grade teacher Katie Kroell (*Katie Kroell: Sacrifice*). She's an excellent teacher but I've chosen this clip mostly because it is a study of human nature. Notice the young man in the