*classmate, here are three questions to ask myself. Instead of calling out I can jot down what I wanted to say or send magic to a classmate, so they suspect I know the answer, too.*

*It won't be enough for a student to know a replacement behavior, of course. If they're likely to be able to use it, they'll need to practice it a bit. As in: I'm going to ask you some questions that you know the answer to, and you're going to practice writing down a word or two, to remind you of what you want to say rather than calling out, OK? and that can be a great way to make “talking it over” a productive and active task.*

Background knowledge is profoundly important to learning. That starts with vocabulary. To name something is to conjure it into being. *When you keep from doing something you have an urge to do, it's called self-regulation.* That makes it easier to talk about.

But background knowledge can go further. You could give an impulsive student a short article about the role of the amygdala in mindfulness—summarizing the idea that if you can delay your response by even a second you can better regulate it. If students understand the science behind what is happening to them, they can often be more successful in making changes.

A good, brief article on the role of the amygdala can be hard to find the moment you need it, obviously, so it might be worth keeping a few articles about predictable challenges at the ready. That's the idea behind the Dean of Students' Curriculum<sup>13</sup> my team developed under Hilary Lewis's leadership. It's a set of dozens of reflective knowledge-based lessons to help students reflect on common nonproductive behaviors.