to the wide variety of their dreams. Some students will find inspiration in Malcolm X and some in Gregor Mendel. We—and, honestly, they—will never know which is going to be which. When it comes to windows and mirrors, every student should have both.

## Blaming the Context

A teacher who assigns the responsibility for the appearance of content in her class to some outside entity—the administration, state officials, or some abstract “they”—starts with two strikes: she is undercutting the content’s validity to students and eroding her own enthusiasm for teaching it. The blaming might sound like this: “This material is on the test, so we’ll have to learn it” or “They say we have to read this, so …” The negativity here is a self-fulfilling prophecy and also a bit lacking in perspective: if it’s “on the test,” it’s also probably part of the school’s curriculum or perhaps your state standards. You’re never going to agree completely with anyone’s judgment on what gets included in the curriculum and standards, but it’s just possible that the (also smart) people who put it there had a good rationale for putting it there. Reflecting on that rationale can be a good place to start: “We’re going to study this because it’s an important building block for things you do throughout your life as a student.”

## Loving Challenge

Carol Dweck’s important work on growth mindset has been widely discussed and applied—sometimes well and sometimes poorly. At its core it reminds us that the fact that something is challenging is a good thing. A willingness to embrace challenge may well cause us to learn more. It certainly prepares us for life’s difficulties. So a tiny shift from “I’m sorry, this is going to be hard” to “This is going to be really challenging (and that’s a good thing)” can help.