of directness. Figure 4.1 arranges three different levels of prompting according to the degree of direction they offer.

It's important to see these possibilities as a spectrum, not a hierarchy. Sometimes the power of *Stretch It* lies in your capacity to shape the answer and steer students to the most important ideas and concepts. In other situations, the most important factor is a low transaction cost or a student's decision about what's worthy of further comment. There's a place for both directive and nondirective forms of *Stretch It*, and I suggest using all types. That said, where to strike the balance is a necessary question.

Part of finding that balance lies in recognizing the synergy between directive and nondirective versions of the technique. Asking lots of rigorous directive *Stretch It* questions is likely, over time, to teach students how to think more productively about developing their own answers. Then, when you stretch those students with less directive follow-ups, they're likely to do so, out of habit, in rigorous ways. This suggests that it may be worthwhile to invest time at the outset in directive questions, working in more nondirective prompts over time.

The type of question you're asking and the type of discussion you hope to have will also impact the balance of directive and nondirective versions of *Stretch It* you use in your classes. When you are eager for an array of answers—when exploring affective responses to a text, for example, or engaging in literary analysis that encompasses a range of plausible thinking—nondirective *Stretch It* prompts can yield a fascinating array of student thinking, perhaps even unearthing meaty insights you hadn't predicted. On the other hand, if there is a specific outcome you have planned for, the balance probably shifts in favor of more directive prompts. In short, you'll want to match the decision you make about the balance you strike among *Stretch It*