train teachers, I think they're ideal for repeated viewing and study.

*Julia Addeo* (North Star Academy HS, Newark, NJ): Julia's outstanding Checking for Understanding ([Chapter Three](#)) is enabled by *Exemplar Planning* ([technique 1](#)). Her review of the *Do Now* ([technique 20](#)) relies on a balance of *Means of Participation* ([technique 36](#)) that includes *Cold Call* ([technique 34](#)) and *Show Call* ([technique 13](#)). There's not a minute of wasted time.

*Akilah Bond*, then of Leadership Prep Carnasie Elementary School, is reading a Cam Jansen story with her second graders. Her *Wait Time* is exemplary. She uses *All Hands* ([technique 29](#)), asking students to put their hands down so their classmates don't feel rushed, and she ensures productive *Wait Time* ([technique 33](#)) by prompting thinking skills. She consistently holds out for “all the way right” answers (*Right Is Right*, [technique 16](#)). When Anthony answers you can see both how he uses *Habits of Discussion* ([technique 44](#)) to show he's been listening and how supportive his classmates' *Habits of Attention* ([technique 48](#)) are in making him feel confident as he strives to explain his own thinking. And when Michael crushes it, his triumph is in part brought about by clear *Procedures and Routines* ([Chapter Ten](#))—students know not to call out while he is thinking.

*Jessica Bracey*: Reading with her fifth-grade students at North Star Academy Clinton Hill Middle School, Jessica executes gold standard *FASE Reading* ([technique 24](#)), with her students, showing pleasure and skill in bringing the book to life. She *Fronts the Writing* ([technique 40](#)), asking them to respond in writing before they discuss the book. Her exemplary *Procedures and Routines* ([Chapter Ten](#)) mean they transfer all their thinking to the page and her *Silent Solo* ([technique 39](#)) means they're thinking deeply