One observation implicit in this comment is the idea that people change—not only their skills but also their perceptions. You cannot control whether a student is nervous at first. But you can control environmental variables sufficiently to change that feeling in time.

There are of course other ways to manage the experience so that students gradually get better at reading by reading aloud. I’ll return to those in a moment. But for now I want to also point out that denying all students the opportunity to read aloud because some students might at first be nervous is wrong. All students deserve the right to connect with reading as a positive experience and teachers must ensure that all students develop mastery of the skill.

# How to Lead **FASE** Reading

How then do you unlock the benefits of student oral reading and mitigate its downsides? How do you ensure leverage and attentiveness and prepare for strugglers? When you lead **FASE** Reading, you ask students to read aloud, one by one, in an unpredictable pattern, usually for short durations, at least at first. By “asking” I mean most often assigning readers—*Cold Calling*. We want volunteers but we want universality and accountability, as well.

Everyone has to read—and hopefully come to love reading. “The weakest readers need the *most* practice at reading, but are also the ones who tend to volunteer *least* to read aloud, as well as the ones who opt not to read privately after school hours. To serve our weakest readers, it simply must be the expectation that every child can be asked to read aloud at any time,” Jo Facer writes. Here are some details on those elements.

## Keep Durations Unpredictable