end. “Go ahead and flip to your *Exit Ticket*. You have three minutes,” he says.

Before his “return” to Michael, Denarius uses that phrase, “We’ll come back to you” here. The powerful thing is that with a clear procedure or recipe to follow that outlines his reaction—a technique he’d made familiar almost to the point of automaticity—he actually does return to Michael and helps him progress in his understanding.

## Theme and Variation

*No Opt Out*, as I mentioned, comes in various forms and it’s worth comparing the two examples from Denarius’s classroom to begin considering both themes and variations.

In both cases, going back to the student who was initially incorrect (or partially correct) provides them the opportunity to improve or clarify their original answer. It also gives another student in the room the opportunity to provide an “assist.” Allowing students to help their peers in a positive and public way builds community and culture—or, more precisely, if you’ve established an intentional culture where teamwork thrives, and students support one another, then *No Opt Out* enhances that culture richly and lets students help their peers via their academic accomplishment.

In both cases, tone matters: Denarius is consistent, clear, and steady. *Culture of Error* (technique 12) thrives: Mistakes are useful learning tools. When confusion emerges, the class works through it. There’s no blaming of the learner but also not a profusion of “awesome awesomeness.” In most cases a sprinkle of subdued positivity suffices (“Well done, Aaron” or “Now you’ve got it, Michael”). There will be occasions when celebration is warranted; it will sing more if it is reserved mostly for those moments.^1