- Another key source of motivation is transparency of purpose. Understanding the “why” behind a task usually helps the reluctant or skeptical get started. You'd want to understand why this “silent writing” wasn't busy work, too. So you might preview—briefly!—what comes later in the lesson (“Take one minute *Silent Solo* to write down some ideas about what Esperanza's doll might represent. We're going to use these ideas to shape our discussion of symbolism when the timer goes off”) or building investment up front (“Reading your faces, I think this chapter intrigued you. I can't wait to read some of your thoughts. Take one minute to jot your observations. Go!”). Linking moments of *Silent Solo* with the larger trajectory of the lesson can help students feel invested in their writing and more likely to make the most of the time provided.

- Student motivation is also impacted by what you do as they're working. If your affect and actions show students their ideas have value, it will provide an incentive to continue writing. As you circulate, remind students gently and warmly of expectations if needed—“keep those pencils moving”—but not exclusively or even primarily. Make sure to also take the time to read over shoulders, comment, and nod appreciatively. *Oh, that's interesting, Carol. Can't wait to talk about that, Grant. Nice, Israel. Great word …* or just raise your eyebrows and smile. Appreciating the content of what students have written makes them feel successful and scholarly and it will help make strong thinking a habit.

The clip *Emily Badillo: Three Minutes on Your Own* shows many of the elements of habit-building in action. Emily is a guest teacher in the classroom where this clip is filmed so it's her first time working with these students. (She's piloting the Reading Reconsidered Curriculum my team has