chat—a fact that had the unanticipated result of allowing teachers to go back and analyze it later. As the discussion unfolded, they had cause to.

Originally my colleagues thought their unit had been a triumph. The discussions were rich and, thanks to the accountability of the chat structure, they could easily track who had participated how many times, ensuring that everyone contributed.

But as a capstone, students were asked to write a paper analyzing a passage from the play, and the papers were a stunning disappointment. You've been down this road once or twice probably. They couldn't wait to see what students wrote, but as they read each successive paper they moved from anticipation to disappointment to despondency and despair. Where had the trenchant insight and deep analysis gone? Then they realized they had a transcript of all of their discussions. They went back to look for clues. They found that the discussion was indeed full of outstanding ideas, but that, time and time again, those ideas were broached by just two students, with the rest of the class piggybacking on their breakthroughs. The class was able to reflect on a unique and powerful insight *once it was made*, but only two girls were consistently able to generate those underlying insights. They (and only they) were able to discern the germ of core conflicts and themes in Shakespeare's Elizabethan verbiage. Once they laid it out clearly, others were able to jump in. “Oh, it's about loyalty? I can speak to that!”

It's good in some ways that the ideas of these two scholars permeated the room. But it also convinced teachers that the students had greater and broader mastery of reading Shakespeare than they actually did. This was exacerbated by the fact that the teachers had had no tool to measure whether students were able to generate meaning directly