“but because the dominant theory of how we acquire skill suggested it was the best thing to do.” We blame teaching to the test on the tests when part of the problem is our own conception of teaching. Lessons, she says, should look very different from the final skill they are hoping to instill. The goal is to make what's intuitive to experts legible to novices so they can master it.

## TECHNIQUE 22: BOARD = PAPER

I have a colleague who can still tell me what we said about each classroom we observed during a series of school visits we made more than a decade ago. I know this because once, several years after the visit, she did exactly that, flipping back through a trusty old spiral notebook until she found the date and heading, thumbing down through a tidy transcription of the salient points about each teacher we'd watched until she found the one we were discussing. “Yes,” she confirmed, “we loved her upbeat, positive tone even then.”

I have another colleague who can flip back through her notes and remind everyone what we decided at a meeting or what we thought of a video we watched eighteenth months ago.

Unlike these colleagues, my own notes are more or less useless to me after I have taken them. I never learned (or, more precisely, never built a habit of using) an intentional system of note-taking. Perhaps teachers in my schools assumed my peers and I knew how to take notes, perhaps they thought it was up to us to figure out, but in school my notes then were a mess of hasty scrawls with little organizational structure. This pattern persists to this day, and I find this weakness to be an enduring drain on my productivity.