expectations and reminds students that he's *observing carefully*. He then asks students to be ready to defend their answer. In doing so, he acknowledges that multiple responses have been given but, crucially, he has withheld the answer (see [technique 12](#), *Culture of Error*) and not yet told them which one is correct.

Instead of revealing the answer himself, Bryan calls on Blaize (who correctly selected B) to explain his answer and reasoning. He affirms Blaize's answer but also calls on Elizabeth (who incorrectly chose D) to reiterate it. Bryan then asks students to “check or change” their work for that problem, saying, “Give yourself a check if you picked answer choice B. If you did not, circle that, and fix it now.” By insisting that students *Own and Track* ([technique 14](#)), he ensures that they all internalize the answer and the reasoning behind it.

While the multiple-choice format of Bryan's question lends itself well to *Show Me*, it's also possible to use hand signals to gather data on questions that were not originally designed as multiple choice, as Denarius Frazier shows in the same video. Denarius has written out on chart paper two solutions for a problem that students have been working on independently. He asks students to evaluate the two solutions and then says, “Let's take a poll. We'll reveal on one. One finger if you agree with solution A, two for B. Where are we, in three, two, and one?” Notice how careful he is to ensure that answers are revealed in unison. Thus he is able to instantly read the room and see that students are divided between the two solutions. He sends them into a *Turn and Talk* ([technique 43](#)) to discuss their thinking. Afterwards, Denarius takes another poll to see if their thinking has shifted as a result. He scans the room to assess the new data, and begins the discussion with a student who chose B. Other students share their thinking, and then Denarius shifts focus and asks someone who