Denarius shows, they create the conditions under which students thrive.

## TECHNIQUE 6: REPLACE SELF-REPORT

One of the most common methods teachers use to find out whether their students understand what they've been teaching is to ask them directly, “Do you understand?” This seems logical enough, but it turns out to be a relatively ineffective (if easily improved upon) way to assess student understanding.

Let's say a science teacher has just finished explaining cellular structure to her sixth graders. “OK,” she says, “those are the basics of cellular structure. Does everyone understand?” Or perhaps she's a bit more specific: “Is everyone clear on the differences between plant and animal cells?”

She'd likely get what seems like confirmation: mutters and nods from a smattering of students. Perhaps a “yeah” or “uh-huh,” though perhaps she won't hear anything. Either way, she's likely to take it as evidence that students are with her—call it *apparent assent*—and say something like: “Good. Let's push on to the role of chloroplasts.”

But questions that ask students to evaluate their own understanding of something they've just learned tend to yield false confirmation—especially when they are framed as a yes/no question. The primary reason for this is that the questions rely on self-report, which is notoriously inaccurate. People, especially novices, often don't know what they don't know about a topic, and even if they do they are often unlikely to acknowledge it when asked.

If, for example, you ask a group of students, “Are you clear on the causes of the American Revolution?” and everyone says yes, it is because they are clear on the causes they are