# Acknowledgments

This book would have been impossible without the team of people whose work is reflected in almost every line. My colleagues on the *Teach Like a Champion* team have made untold contributions, both direct and indirect. There are hundreds of their insights about videos or techniques in this book—and in the rest of the work we produce. But they have also contributed something that's harder to define. The moments when they offer a phrase to describe exactly what a teacher is doing or when we roll back the tape because they've seen something fascinating in a student's response are just as likely to come right after some moment in which they laugh with self-deprecating humor at something they've said, acknowledge a teammate's efforts, or defer credit to someone else. They are wise, gracious, funny, humble, discerning colleagues, this is to say, who create an environment where doing the work of studying teaching is rewarding, challenging, and even fun.

When we get teachers and school leaders together for professional development—in person or, now, virtually—our goal is always to honor people by helping them get better at such important work and to ensure that everyone—us and them—learns a lot, but also to have fun doing it—to make teaching a team sport marked by joy and camaraderie. Teachers deserve to work in that kind of environment, and I know that because I am lucky enough to appreciate it firsthand.

That team includes Emily Badillo, Jaimie Brillante, Dan Cotton, John Costello, Colleen Driggs, Dillon Fisher, Kevin Grijalva, Kim Griffith, Brittany Hargrove, Joaquin Hernandez, Tracey Koren, Jasmine Lane, Hilary Lewis, Rob Richard, Jen Rugani, Hannah Solomon, Beth Verrilli,