they succeed and you see it in their faces,” said Audrey Spencer. “It’s so fast. In the space of a single class. It builds their confidence and then we see an increase in their achievement.”

When there is a norm or an expectation that a student should not or cannot speak in class, be it societal (girls should be passive) or personal (there are three kids who volunteer; I am not one of them), the *Cold Call* breaks the norm for the student, absolving her of the responsibility for the violation of what is or appears to be a social code and perhaps even causing the student to see the code as a false construct.

*Cold Call* can remind a student that their voice matters and, often, that they are capable of participating credibly. In that sense it is a reminder that part of a teacher's responsibility is to reinforce everyone's right, legitimacy, and sometimes, just maybe, responsibility, to speak—for the sake of their own learning and to contribute to the classroom community.

In fact, a recent study suggests just how powerful *Cold Call* is in shaping students' beliefs and expectations about their own participation. The study, by Elisa Dallimore and colleagues, tested the effect of *Cold Call* on voluntary participation by assessing what happened over time to students in classes where *Cold Call* was frequently used by the teacher as compared to classes in which it was not used.^11 What they found was that “significantly more students answer questions voluntarily in classes with high cold-calling, and that the number of students voluntarily answering questions in high cold-calling classes increases over time.” There is a double effect, in other words. Not only do more students participate in classes where the teacher *Cold Calls* because of the *Cold Calls* directly, but also because afterwards—perhaps because they experience