them, and over time my list grew in both the number of topics and the level of specificity. Ideas coalesced into techniques. But I also found that great teachers came in every stripe and style: They were extroverts and introverts; planners and improvisers; quick-witted and serious. But in the aggregate, a story emerged. There is a toolbox for excellence even in the face of challenge, it turns out. The contents have been forged by ten thousand teachers working quietly and usually without recognition at the end of cracked-linoleum hallways. I am sure that some of my analysis of what they do is wrong. In fact, I have rewritten this book several times to try to capture more of what I am learning about what exceptional teachers do with better accuracy. One point I have tried to stress is that having a tool is not an argument for using it heedlessly. A painter has a case full of brushes and painting knives, but she does not use every one of them with each portrait or landscape. If you're a teacher near the beginning of your study of the craft of teaching, my aim is to help you become one of those teachers who, for a long and distinguished career, unlocks the latent talent and skill waiting in students, even if previous efforts have been unsuccessful. If you commit yourself and your talents to this work, you deserve to be successful and to change lives. If you are successful, you will most likely be happy in the work, and when you are happy, in turn, you will do better work.

If you are a master teacher already, I hope a discussion of tools and their applications, the framing of a vocabulary for talking about the critical and sometimes overlooked moments of your day, will inspire you not only to refine your craft but also to love doing so and to feel the pleasure of committing (or recommmitting) to the deepest possible mastery of the complex and worthy endeavor that is your life's work. I assume that in many cases this book may describe things you already know and do. That's great by