[20](), *Do Now*, is that it creates a natural opportunity to circulate and observe what students are doing right away at the outset of class.) You want it to be clear to students that it is normal for you to go anywhere in the classroom at any time, and the longer you wait to break the plane, the less natural and normal it seems for you to come wandering by at any moment.

Being able to naturally and easily get near students increases the range of tools you have in interacting with them. [Technique 9, Active Observation](), for example, is dedicated to the critical role that systematic data-gathering via circulation plays in checking for understanding. The tools it discusses require breaking the plane as a matter of course.

So, too, do a series of more mundane interactions. You can be far more private with Alfred, for example. All class long it seems like he's been fussing with something on the floor, leaning under his desk and moving his chair back and forth in order to ... well, you're not really sure. But he hasn't got anything in his notes or completed any problems. And now he's distracting the students around him. If you're only positioned at the front of the room, you're limited to a question that is likely to distract (and possibly yield a more distracting answer), such as “Alfred, what are you doing?” or “Alfred, please sit correctly in your chair.”

But wandering over to investigate as you call on a student on the other side of the room, you notice that someone has spilled something sticky on the floor beneath Alfred’s desk. It’s getting on his shoes and he’s struggling to stay focused. “Alfred, honey, move to this desk,” you can now say in a low voice. Or perhaps you can bring Alfred a few pieces of paper towel a moment later as the class discussion continues and say, “Try this, sweetheart. Wipe it up and then I’ll be back to make sure you’ve started problem