from the text. Read—or analyze a data set or do another activity—then discuss, then assess, is problematic if you want to know if students can do the first task on their own. If you want to know that, you've got to get some form of assessment before the discussion.

As students advance in their educational careers, they will increasingly find themselves in situations where they must make sense of a text or an experiment or some other key learning activity on their own—without a group of thirty colleagues with whom to distill the information and discuss first. As they mature, they will add value in professional settings by being the ones who can themselves generate ideas directly from the initial experience.

One of the simplest ways to address this is to shift the cycle from RDW to RWD or ADW to AWD and put the writing before the discussion. You still get the benefit of an exchange of ideas at the end, but not before everyone practices thinking deeply and autonomously: *What did I just see? What did it mean? How can I make sense of it?* Beyond the other benefits of writing, this also allows you to assess what students know right away, before the discussion. You can even design the discussion to respond to the initial understanding you see on their papers.

But *Front the Writing* can go a step further. It can help students get much more out of the discussion itself. Think for a minute about what we want students to do, cognitively, during the part of discussion when they are listening to their peers. We want them to listen, of course, but what else? We often tacitly (or explicitly) ask them to decide whether they agree or disagree with the speaker, but this is a bit of an oversimplification of the sort of intellectual life our students might aspire to. In the conversations of life, those whose comments focus simply on “I agree” or “I disagree” are limited. Much more