be ready with a few backstops, like saying “Hmmm. A lot of us seem unsure. Twenty seconds to discuss with your partner. Go.” You might even tell your students to put their hands down. “I want you all to take fifteen seconds and go back to the text and find the answer. I want to see everyone rereading, and I’ll tell you when you can raise your hands.” After fifteen or twenty seconds, you might say, “OK, now, hands!”

Or perhaps, “Hmmm. Surprised to see so few hands. Mark, tell us as much as you *think* you know.” That’s a *Cold Call*, as you probably know, but a pretty supportive one. And if Mark doesn’t have his hand raised but some students do, it communicates that all students in the room are part of the conversation, whether or not they’ve raised their hands. Reluctant students might as well get in on the game. You’d be using a bit of loving accountability to support the gentle encouragement. Together they are likely to make a difference.

The video *Aidan Thomas: Wait Time Montage* shows a compendium of Aidan’s narrating hands techniques. You can see how his energy is always positive and how he varies his approach but is constantly at it throughout this class period. He’s building a culture of hand-raising.

## Step 2: Prompt Thinking Skills

Once you’ve normalized and reinforced the expectation of hand-raising, another productive action to get the most out of *Wait Time* is to *prompt thinking skills*. This is a step by which you teach students how to make *Wait Time* useful by providing guidance about *how* to use their three or five or twelve seconds to be most productive. For example:

> “I’m seeing people thinking deeply and jotting down thoughts. I’ll give everyone a few more seconds to do”