Saying “Thank you” after a student follows a direction is one of the most subtly powerful things you can do, for two reasons. First, it is a sign that a strong community characterized by civility and mutual appreciation is in existence when “please” and “thank you” are frequently used. So it’s good to model “please” and “thank you” in your classroom, especially at moments when students might question whether they still apply; for example, are they still full members of the community when they receive a redirection? Of course, but when you say, “Hands folded in front of you, please, Maya,” it subtly reminds her of that. Then, when Maya folds her hands, you can say, in a low and slightly muted tone: “Thank you.”

Saying “thank you” also reinforces expectations and normalizes follow-through. You would only say “thank you” because Maya had followed your direction. It shows your appreciation to her and it subtly reminds everyone else in the class that the norm is to do what the teacher has asked you.

**Rule 4: Use Universal Language**

Look for chances to remind students that expectations are universal and not personal. Although “I need you with me” is fine, “We need you with us” is better. It suggests that learning is a team sport, and subtly says that the rest of the class is also meeting the expectations you are asking an individual to adhere to. “Let’s make sure we’re all tracking the speaker,” as an alternate to “Please make sure you’re tracking the speaker,” reminds everyone that the expectation is universal.

**Rule 5: Bright Face**

Your bright face is your teaching smile—or at least your age-appropriate, default expression of “I like this work, I