Moskowitz has seen enough and walks out. “You have an endemic problem with stupid shouting and call-and-response. Get them to a more intellectual place,” she tells [the principal] back in the hallway … “They know what a ball is. They’ve known what a ball is since they were toddlers.” Moskowitz is visibly irritated.

I agree with Moskowitz’s assessment. With any “technique” there is the risk of overuse or misapplication. You get a hammer and suddenly everything looks like a nail. Multiply that risk times ten for *Call and Response* because of its appeal to teachers. It feels good to get a vibrant and upbeat response. The temptation can be to use it again and again. Suddenly it’s a bit of a compulsion—overused with limited intentionality—that can easily devolve into poor execution. As with any technique you have to remain aware of the downside and answer the concerns that Moskowitz raises: For what purpose am I using it? What am I having students repeat and why? Am I overusing this technique?

## Call and Response with Reading

In a recent lesson, Eric Snider of Brooklyn was reading an article describing the characteristics of science fiction with his students. He began reading aloud with the expectation that his students would follow along, reading on their own at their seats. To help students feel motivated to follow along with him, he used a “Call and Response spot check.” “Some key facts to be mindful of,” he began, reading, “Most science fiction writers create believable …” The next word was “worlds,” but Eric didn’t read it. Instead he signaled to his students, most of whom chimed in “worlds!” This appeared to demonstrate that they were successfully following along. Eric, however, was concerned. “That was about 80 percent [of us],” he noted, walking to the overhead projector on which he was displaying the text.