the institution—knows them and sees them as both a part of a community and as an individual—not just one of a group of students in third period or eighth grade. Of course that means they have to know that their identities and cultures are welcomed and valued, but in a much more everyday sense students have to feel seen, literally and figuratively—with the literal often causing the figurative. This is often expressed in small moments. Using student names, and inventing opportunities to greet students by name, is hugely important, for example. Saying someone's name is a small reminder of something larger: that we know them for themselves; that we see them in the crowd. One of the reasons I love it when teachers greet students as they enter the room is so they can say, “We missed you yesterday,” “I love your hair,” “Are those new glasses?” and, yes, “Make sure to get me your essay; it was due yesterday.” That, too, tells a student they matter. But Denarius Frazier (see *Denarius Frazier: Remainder*) is also making students feel known when he circulates in his math class and sees their work and the products of their minds. “Much better,” he tells one student. The message is: “I saw what you did today and how it was different from what you did yesterday.”

*Successful* is perhaps the easiest of the three elements to overlook, though its role in motivation is larger than most people realize. Motivation, Peps Mccrea explains,1 is “as much a product of learning as it is the driver of it… . If we care about building motivation for the long run, we must prioritize proficiency. It is the ultimate self-fulfilling engine of education.”

Accomplishing a task successfully and learning that they can succeed leads students to want more. That's why effective teaching that leads to student mastery is one of the greatest long-term sources of student motivation and trust. Part of why Christine Torres's students love and trust