you circulate, giving feedback only to the group at the end of your lap. This would allow you to make independent work feel more autonomous for students. Careful observation accompanied by silence can be powerful, especially if your feedback to the group makes it clear you were observing carefully. Perhaps you want students to struggle a bit or not know right away whether they are on the right track. Not attempting to give feedback as you circulate could also allow you more time and working memory to observe trends and issues in student work. On the other hand, you might risk allowing individual errors to persist and/or students not feeling the same level of support and/or accountability, so it is important for you to choose intentionally, based both on the objective for the day and the moment in the lesson, as well as what you see as you observe.

You can see a strong example of the quieter approach to ActiveObs in the clip BreOnna Tindall: ActiveObs cut from her seventh-grade ELA classroom. As the clip opens, students are reading and annotating a short nonfiction text about the concept of “blind justice.” This is part of their larger reading of the Narrative of the Life of Frederick Douglass. BreOnna, clipboard in hand, is circulating and reading over students' shoulders, occasionally nodding appreciatively as she comes across ideas that will be useful in the discussion. “I'm treasure hunting,” is how BreOnna described it. “I'm looking for the pieces of the conversation that I'm going to highlight so we can come to those key understandings in the lesson.”

Her route around the classroom seems planned but not rushed, and she doesn't pause to read every student paper. Most students do not get feedback. Her goal is to inform the coming conversation. So she's still taking notes and she still occasionally asks clarifying questions (“What's this underline mean here?”), but mostly they are intended to