have students read a lot in class, to have them read in ways that make a text feel valuable—buy-in, a colleague of mine says, is an outcome, not a precondition for any activity—and use a variety of ways of reading so that you get the benefit of multiple approaches.

In designing our *Reading Reconsidered Curriculum*, my team included three forms of reading in each lesson: *Teacher Read Aloud*, *FASE Reading*, and *Accountable Independent Reading* (see *technique 23*). The exact balance we suggest depends on the teacher, the class, and the text. But we suggest healthy doses of all three. (That's not advice I'd limit to the ELA classroom.) The video *Eric Snider: The Wind* is a great example of a teacher using all three ways of reading in synergy: Eric reads aloud, allows his students to read for a stretch—they crush it with the complex text, by the way—and then sends them off to (accountable) independent reading. If there's a weakness to any of those forms of reading, he balances them by using the others and still reaps the unique benefits of each approach.

## Self-Esteem Concerns

Some educators have also suggested that students should not be asked to read aloud in class because they might struggle—this might shame or embarrass them, and possibly cause them to dislike reading. Essentially, the argument is that if students are weak readers, we should withhold from them one of the best tools for improving reading skills because it might cause them discomfort. Learning to be comfortable struggling is, in my mind, a much more manageable and temporary challenge than being a weak reader. Teachers, and the cultures they build, are fully capable of making it safe to struggle and take risks. It's yet another reason why building a vibrant,