book about educating “poor kids” or “Black and Brown kids.” Kids are kids, even if schools are not always what they deserve. This is a book about teaching better, though it is true that I learned what I learned by studying teachers in the part of the education sector that is most important to me, personally.

But I am not foolish enough to think that because I have strong feelings for this aspect of social justice that I fully understand it or the experience of the communities I seek to serve, so part of writing this book involved a months-long process of learning and study of my own, often in the company of my colleagues on the Teach Like a Champion team. The range of the research I read expanded to include social theory, social justice, and culturally responsive teaching, for example. You will see some of the authors I read in that process referenced in the pages of this book: Zaretta Hammond, Lisa Delpit, Alfred Tatum, Rudine Sims-Bishop, and Adeyemi Stembridge.

My entire staff also participated in an internal review of all of our work. This was led by my co-Managing Director, Darryl Williams—it’s hard to lead the process of questioning one’s own thinking—but involved feedback and insights from all of my colleagues as well as partners and school leaders who use *Teach Like a Champion* in organizations and schools. We discussed at length the techniques and terms in the book to ensure that the tone felt right and descriptions would reduce the possibility of misapplication or misinterpretation. We carefully watched and rewatched videos, paying close attention to how techniques were portrayed so that teachers would apply and adapt them successfully to dignify, uplift, and honor students. There were times, to be honest, when the videos or my writing did not accurately capture what we set out to convey and this resulted in my rewriting passages of this