# Preface to the 3.0 Edition: Equity, Justice, and the Science of Learning

I've called this opening section of the third edition of this book a “preface,” but only because I had to call it something. I mostly skip prefaces and perhaps you do, too.

Please don't skip this one. I am going to tell you the story of this book's relationship to a rapidly changing world: How it fits within larger questions of equity and social justice. How it connects to the growing insights of cognitive science on learning.

Whether you're a TLAC veteran or new to the book, it will help you to make sense of what you read in the rest of this volume.

In the summer of 2019 I set out to revise *Teach Like a Champion* for a second time. I'd revised it once before, sharing what I'd learned from further study and tapping into the wisdom of teachers who'd adapted the original techniques. I'd watch them teach and think, *I never would have thought of that* or *How could I have <u>not</u> thought of that?* And so version 2.0 came about.

This time around I again wanted to tap into that wisdom, but I wanted to make a bigger change as well. I wanted to discuss research in cognitive psychology that was rapidly adding to our knowledge of how the human brain worked and how learning happened. The fact that what University of Virginia cognitive psychologist Daniel Willingham calls the “cognitive revolution” was not showing up in classroom instruction was, to me, an equity issue. Students deserved teaching informed by science. It was no longer viable to leave the connections to research implicit in my own book, or not to use the research to understand more clearly not