conversations comfortably and naturally; they speak at the appropriate volume. And perhaps most of all, the practice has taught them that since everyone is going to join in the *Turn and Talk* with energy and enthusiasm, they can safely do the same. This lack of hesitation is one of the main reasons why just seconds after the prompt, the room crackles to life.

Interestingly, it's not just one procedure. As the phrase “*Turn and Talk* with your *face partner*” implies, there are *face partners* and also *shoulder partners*. BreOnna can keep things fresh by shifting which partner students talk to. Her room layout is designed around *Turn and Talk*!

And don't overlook her phrase “share out your response” as it implies something important. Of course, they have plenty to say. Students have written first and are sharing what they wrote. As with whole group discussions, writing first means a more substantive and inclusive partner discussion (see [technique 40](#), *Front the Writing*). As we will see, *Turn and Talk* works best when designed for synergy with what happens before and after.

Finally, BreOnna tells her students they will have (just) one minute to talk. This helps them gauge the appropriate length of their comments. And, ironically, keeping the *Turn and Talk* short maximizes its value. It's a preliminary to the larger class discussion, so BreOnna wants students to have more to say, still, when it's over. She doesn't want them to say everything yet.

You can see many of the same themes in the video *Sarah Wright: Keystone*. First, Sarah asks a question: “Imagine you are Tio Luis [in Pam Muñoz-Ryan's novel *Esperanza Rising*], what would you say?” This is a reiteration of a question they have already responded to in writing, and now they get to share their brilliance. There are hands in the air. Lots. Students are eager to talk so this might seem