reveals the devastating impact of the sun on the land and its people.

To maximize the benefits of novelty bias with guided practice, a teacher would typically unbundle questions, that is, break questions down into smaller pieces so that she could ask them more quickly of a greater number of students, thus maximizing the perception of mileposts. *Cold Calling* participants for each step might also create more of a sense of momentum and flow. On the other hand, a risk of moving more rapidly is that some students could struggle to keep up with or process what they'd seen, so capping a bit of guided practice off with a slower opportunity for note-taking or reflection might be beneficial, as in, “OK, take 90 seconds to make sure you’ve got each step down in your notes and then make a note to yourself about your takeaways for solving this kind of problem.” Independent practice—“OK, now try one on your own; you have three minutes and then we’ll check in”—is also a good way to let students absorb what they’ve learned during guided practice.

## Activity 3: Independent Practice

When students complete work that they know how to do on their own, they are engaged in independent practice (IP). IP is usually done without significant support from the teacher; it’s often done silently. But just because work is silent and independent does not make it IP. For example, silent reading is often knowledge assimilation, and reflecting on or brainstorming solutions to questions students don’t know how to solve is reflection and idea generation, the next topic in this section. By way of distinguishing, IP implies autonomous execution of a skill or application of a knowledge base that students are in the final stages of mastering. Some examples: