matters to her. Her students recognize this and seconds later she's teaching to a locked-in room of thirty.

The video Denarius Frazier: Keystone shows Denarius using a Swivel to scan the room several times. The clearest and best example occurs at about 10:20 because his range of motion is relatively narrow. That's because he's taken an even more intentional approach to the question of where to stand. When you stand in the corner of the room you dramatically reduce the field of vision you have to scan and otherwise manage. This makes it simpler to see everything. I call this position Pastore's Perch, after the first teacher I observed using it consistently and intentionally, Patrick Pastore.

You can see math teacher Rodolfo Loureiro standing consistently in Pastore's Perch to see better in Rodolfo Loureiro: Fix Your Mistakes. Each time he gives a direction he walks to the corner of his room and observes from there. This makes it easy for him to see whether students follow through. The movement to the corner also probably makes it clearer to students that he's looking and that it's time for task completion. The combination of these two effects allows Rodolfo to relax and smile warmly. Bonus points to Rodolfo for using different corners so he sees different students with more clarity each time and is in tune with how everyone is doing.

Here's a quick graphic that demonstrates the importance of Pastore's Perch. To see the classroom from the front center you have to scan a field of about 150 degrees. That's a lot to see, but scan carefully and pay special attention to the blind spots in the corners of the visual field. However, if you walk to the corner of your room, you can see the whole room by scanning a visual field of just 80 degrees. It's now simpler to scan.