important question, then, is how we can “see” better and more fully as we teach.

It might sound like something intangible, but perception responds to preparation. To perceive well, you need to prepare for what you’ll be looking for and, ideally, free as much working memory as possible to be available, unencumbered, for observation. Inattentional blindness, I noted in *Chapter One*, is the name for the phenomenon whereby people frequently fail to see what is plainly before their eyes—never mind what is hidden or concealed. We are all at constant risk of failing to notice important details, especially when they occur in a complex visual field, and the classroom is almost always that.

We have to accept this and prepare with it in mind if we want to perceive more accurately, as Chabris and Simons remind us when they write: “There is one proven way to eliminate inattentional blindness: make the unexpected object or event less unexpected.” If you think through potential errors in student thinking before you teach, you’ll be more likely to notice them—or any mistakes. You learn to see in part by preparing to see. If you’re clear in advance about what you want to see in the end product of student work, you’ll look more precisely and notice more whether students are actually doing it.

But we also know that perception is affected by the load on our working memory. Pick up your cell phone and call your spouse or partner and you become less alert to what’s happening on the road around you. Try to think about what’s the best answer to a question while you’re listening to your students and you become less alert to what’s happening around you. You’ll have less cognitive bandwidth to use for perception. You are likely to miss signals. But if you think through—and write down—details of an ideal student answer to key questions—what we will call in this