- Supporting better, more rigorous answers
- Prompting more cognitive work during the “wait”
- Increasing use of evidence in answers

You can see a great example of *Wait Time* in the video *Maggie Johnson: Focus on Why* from an eighth-grade English class at Troy Prep Middle School. The class is discussing *To Kill a Mockingbird*, and the clip begins as Maggie follows up on some writing she’s asked her students to do. “As I walked around, [I noticed] many of you were able to tell me what the difference in opinion is between Aunt Alexandra and Atticus on Calpurnia,” Maggie says. “The question is, why?”

After about a second (the amount of time a typical teacher waits), there’s just one hand in the air. So Maggie waits. After three seconds or so, perhaps eight more students have raised their hands. Just a second or two of additional reflection time, and a spate of students enthusiastically offer to participate, having realized they have some insight on the matter. Her smile and the playful way she raises her eyebrows diffuses any awkwardness. In another few seconds a few more hands go up, these a bit more tentative. This is especially interesting: the last group of students who’ve raised their hands seem as though they weren’t at first sure they wanted to risk it, but have decided to after all. In many ways, these are exactly the kids you want raising their hands, and it’s exciting to see the courage that a few seconds will evoke.

In the end, Maggie gives, by my count, eight seconds of *Wait Time* before she calls on Jaya to answer. As a result, she has better choices: a dozen kids who’ve thought through an answer. If the first student’s answer needs developing she has lots of students she can call on. And they’re likely to have more thoughtful answers than what