and he decides of his own volition not to get whatever it was out of his backpack. It's his choice, but his choice changes because he knows his teacher is aware of it. *I don't need that right now.* When people know others are aware of what they are doing, they become more aware of their own choices and they choose differently. This is true almost everywhere in our lives. There's a street near my house where a device on the roadside shows your speed as you drive past. It doesn't take a picture. There are no consequences. It simply tells you how fast you are going. And yet every driver I have ever driven behind slows down.⁹

That's part of what's happening in Arielle's classroom. When students know that their teacher sees and cares whether they follow a direction, they are suddenly much more likely to follow it.

And this brings me to the second thing Arielle does. She exaggerates her looking ever so slightly so students will be more aware of it. You can see this best in the photos. She lifts her chin in a tiny bit of pantomime. *See me looking?* This enhances the effect of the preventive benefits of looking, especially for students who are least likely to notice without the extra emphasis. I call this idea *Be Seen Looking*. Looking is most effective when students are aware of it, so we can help them become more aware of it via subtle nonverbal actions and thus prevent behaviors that would require correction. It's a gift to everybody.

To go back to the photo from Katie's classroom, it's worth asking whether her student would have seen her questioning glance if she hadn't, like Arielle, lifted her chin slightly to make her looking more legible to her student.

Let's call that move *Chin Up* to make it easy to remember and replicate. And while we're at it, let's call a deliberate scan from one side of the room—to build a habit of looking