Well, how'd you do? Were you creative? Brilliantly analytical? Did you suggest that something would have to affect the particles in the Earth's atmosphere, causing them to absorb blue light more than it currently does, but only slightly so as to leave green, with the next shortest waves, as the most visible? Did you suggest that perhaps an increase in water droplets in the air might reflect the yellows and oranges of sunrise and combine with the natural blue of the sky, perhaps against a backdrop of clouds, to make it appear green?

Or were you unable to answer? Did you guess something implausible, maybe about the reflection of the ocean (a common misconception) and then give up on the project? Is your thinking box blank? If that's the case, then you've just been reminded of the point made in Chapter One: Higher-order thinking is context-specific and knowledge-dependent. If you don't have knowledge about what causes the sky to be blue (or any other color) this exercise in creative and analytical thinking is lost on you. You can think deeply only about things you know something about—the more you know, the more deeply and creatively.

From a student learning perspective this means that we must consider our pupils' level of background knowledge in advance if we want real rigor during lessons. Preparing a lesson by noting that you will ask “probing questions” is insufficient unless you have ensured that students have knowledge to draw on as you probe and ask them “Why?” I'm actually pretty shaky on my knowledge of the atmosphere so you could have asked me a thousand probing questions about the color of the sky and not elicit much more than resentment. At some point in your asking me “... but might it have something to do with particles in the air?” I would get angry and frustrated. I've already told you that I don't know. You can keep asking me “why” if you