correct.” You just want to be aware of and intentional about what you communicate and when. Think for a moment about what might be the most common teacher tell: “Does anyone have a *different* answer?” (When was the last time you said *that* when someone got it right?) In using this phrase without intentionality, you would first communicate that the answer was wrong and therefore risk discouraging students from thinking as deeply about it as they would if they didn't know. Second, you would imply to the student who answered, “If that's all you've got, please don't speak again.”

It's worth noting that the most persistent tells are usually in response to wrong answers, but we can also have tells for right answers—a big, bright face or perhaps the inflection on the word “*why*” in a statement like, “And can you tell us *why* you think Wilbur is afraid?” Clearly, it's not a negative to show appreciation and enthusiasm for a great answer. But it *is* worth considering whether that enthusiasm sometimes gives away too much, too soon or, if it's used too often, what its absence communicates. Ideally, we are all alert to our tells and manage them—replacing them as often as possible with a consistent and balanced expression of appreciation that's not quite approval.

# Praise Risk-Taking

The final aspect of creating a *Culture of Error* is to praise students for taking risks and facing down the challenge of a difficult subject. It's especially useful to encourage students to take risks when they're not sure. A statement such as, “This is a tough question. If you're struggling with it, that's a good sign. Now, who'll be bold and start us off?” reminds students that being a scholar means offering your thoughts when you're not sure, and sometimes *because* you're not sure. You can reinforce that positively by saying, for example, “I love the fact that this is a hard question and so