Of course, praising (or positively reinforcing) actions means calling out things like hard work and diligence, but some of the best teachers I've observed align their praise to learning objectives. Suppose students are working on including strong transitions in their writing. As you *Circulate* (technique 25) and observe, you specifically reinforce those who have used transitions or, better, those who have gone back and added to or revised their transitions to make them better. Perhaps you even use a *Show Call* (technique 13) to show off their work. “Scholars, look up here. This is Melanie’s paper. Look at this paragraph. She included a solid transition, but then she went back and revised it to make it capture the contrast between the paragraphs more clearly. Now her paper really holds together. That’s how you do it.” Now, not only does Melanie know what was behind her success, not only does she understand that success is determined directly by her own actions, but the rest of the class sees it, too.

Another benefit of *Precise Praise* connects back to what Shawn Anchor calls the *Tetris Effect*. Essentially, by training our brains to look for and appreciate the positive, we learn to see things more positively overall. Anchor writes, “Just as it takes days of concentrated practice to master a video game, training your brain to notice more opportunities takes practice focusing on the positive.” By using *Precise Praise* to help students notice all that they are doing that is right or exceptional, we are also training them to see the learning community as a positive place. We are also, of course, training ourselves to see the same. Imagine the effect that this habit has on the struggling first-year teacher, in the classroom where everything may not be exactly as she or he had hoped. By training herself to precisely name that which is going well, she not only makes that behavior more replicable for students, but lets herself celebrate that which is worthy—and hopefully avoids the