“The dye disperses.”

“Yes, thank you.”

Similarly you could imagine the day when a student said in Arielle's class: “The lines cross once.” And she said, “What's the technical term for that?” allowing the student to retrieve the term “intersect.” Students make a habit of using advanced vocabulary because teachers push them to. Once that becomes a habit they do it even when not promoted. They *self-stretch*.

This can also happen in nontechnical cases.

“How did Kika respond when she received the trophy?” a teacher might ask her students.

A student responding, “She smiled” would be correct, but the teacher might stretch her by asking: “Can you capture more of the feeling of her response in your word choice?” Or “Can you use one of our vocabulary words?”

Hopefully she'd then get a more powerful word, like “She beamed.”

If she got a response like “She smiled strongly” or “She had a broad smile on her face” the teacher might stretch again. “Yes, much better. Glory for you if you can capture ‘a broad smile’ in a single precise word. Can you?”

**Ask for Evidence**

By asking students to describe evidence that supports their conclusion, you emphasize the process of building and supporting sound arguments. In the larger world and in college, where right answers are not so clear and the cohesiveness of an argument is what matters, this will prove invaluable practice. You also avoid reinforcing weaker subjective interpretations, a task that is often challenging for teachers. You don't have to label an