and then to call everyone's attention to something else, ideally something more positive, and doubly so if it helps build reinforce positive norms. This is called a *lightning-quick public correction*, and it might sound something like, “Quentin, I need your pencil moving … just like those sharp-looking scholars in my back row!” or “Quentin, I need your pencil moving” and then “Josefina, I can't wait to hear what you're writing about.”

Perhaps the most effective single action for “hiding” a public correction or reminder is whispering it. Even if you're in public. Even if everyone can still hear you. You can see this done effectively in the video *Jason Armstrong: Don't Miss It*. Jason, in fact, makes two corrections of students who are off task, and both are essentially public and audible. He's standing in front of the class when he makes them, but they *feel* like private individual corrections because he whispers them. By dropping his voice he is reminding the students he is correcting that he is doing everything he can to keep it as private as he can, that he's sensitive to and respectful of their feelings and does not want to embarrass them. A whisper, even if everyone else can hear it, says, “I am trying to do this without calling too much attention to you.” It creates trust and the illusion of privacy. For this reason a *whisper correction* is one of the most powerful tools a teacher can use.

## Intervention 6: Consequence

The last form of intervention is a consequence. Giving consequences is technical and challenging—enough so that it is the subject of its own technique later in this chapter; however, it's worth noting that many of the elements of noninvasiveness I have discussed (whispering, making the conversation private, etc.) can also be applied to a consequence.