of perceiving opportunities for revision on their own, they won't learn to write independently.

Finally, after leveraging the minds of all the students in the class and eliciting thoughts from several of them on the revision at hand, you can then create an opportunity for all students to apply the learning they've just done. “Great, now let's all go through our sentences, check the ones that are in the active voice, and revise any that are in the passive voice.” Through the use of *Show Call*, the Think Ratio and Participation Ratio on the revision task has just increased exponentially.

Incidentally, a nice way I’ve seen teachers make sure that every student learns from each revision opportunity is by doing something called an “offline rewrite.” After *Show Calling* student A’s work, provide feedback, ask the class to revise, and then *Show Call* student Z’s work to see if he or she applied the feedback as well. This ensures that everyone is accountable for applying the feedback, not just the person whose work was *Show Called*. It also gives students the time and space they need to make thoughtful revisions. This can be especially helpful for students who need additional processing time before they can effectively apply feedback.

## On Revising Writing

Here are some hints to help you make revisions as productive as possible.

Judith Hochman has observed that it is important to distinguish *editing*, which is fixing basic errors like capitalization, punctuation, and spelling, from *revising*, which is the task of improving writing—specifically by revising structure or word choice. As Hochman has pointed out, if you let students choose, they will generally edit, primarily because it is easier to add a missing capital letter