boost of confidence her teacher might have hoped for, Kiley might be thinking, “That’s not what I said … Was she actually listening to me?” Perhaps she thinks it’s funny and she laughs. Or perhaps she thinks *I didn’t say any of that*, and she starts to suspect that her teacher will accept the bare minimum from her. As Adam Smith points out in *Theory of Moral Sentiments*, “It is only the most … superficial of mankind who can be much delighted with that praise that they themselves know to be … unmerited.”

Is “in the ballpark” good enough for Kiley? For all students? Rather than giving students the chance to persevere through a challenge or marshal additional cognitive resources, the teacher takes over and, in so doing, may actually (and paradoxically) signal a *lack* of confidence in Kiley’s abilities. As Peps Mccrea writes in his study of the science of motivation, “Success is not about making things easier for pupils. It is about helping them to do something they couldn’t do before.” Perversely, rounding up devalues students’ voices and insights, denying them that chance. False attributions of quality “only serve to undermine motivation and erode trust.”

Fortunately, a few specific actions can make it easier to consistently help students arrive at academically rigorous answers. Of course, in talking about right answers, I also acknowledge that there are questions for which there is no right answer. Every teacher asks questions that are open to interpretation or require nuance, but even in such cases, there remains a standard for what constitutes a complete, high-quality response. That standard too requires our daily attention and self-discipline.

## Holding Out for All-the-Way Right

The most basic form of *Right Is Right*, holding out for all-the-way right, means using phrases that cause students to