consequence, and then continue teaching with warmth and enthusiasm.

## Notes on Delivery

In addition to exuding *Emotional Constancy*, protecting privacy, and making sure consequences are focused on purpose, not power, teachers who give consequences that reliably change behavior for the better follow the principles described in the next sections.

## Use a Bounce-Back Statement

It's probably safe to say that every teacher has encountered a student who shuts down once he or she receives a consequence. In that instant, some students feel as though the whole world is against them, including you, so they convince themselves that they should cut their losses and stop trying. Your goal is to suggest otherwise and nudge them forward into a productive direction. One way is by delivering a “bounce-back” statement that shows students that success is still within their grasp. For example, you might say something like “Michael, please don't call out. That's two scholar dollars. I know you can do this” or “That's two scholar dollars. I can't wait to see your hand up so I can call on you.” When you use bounce-back statements, you socialize students to persist in the face of emotional duress, which is a life skill that will benefit them long after they leave your classroom.

## Maintain the Pace

Responding to behavior by lecturing or giving a speech disengages the rest of the class and increases the likelihood of other fires sprouting up. Here are a couple of tips for maintaining the pace when emotions run high and you have to give a consequence: