seeks to inspire her husband to ruthless ambition. (Note the beautiful oral reading by Jennifer.)

“What's she going to do when he gets home?” Beth asks, to which Ashanti replies: “She's gonna talk all this evil stuff in his ear.” Which is true and shows a strong understanding of Shakespeare's play, and frankly of Lady Macbeth.

But how would that response play in a college class just a semester or two on in a student's journey? It might work fine. Her classmates and her professor might love the easy casual wisdom of she's gonna talk all this evil stuff in his ear. They might even try to use a bit of it themselves in their own answers; it's fun to capture the essence of Shakespeare so casually, as if it were easy. But Ashanti will also need to write a paper using more academic language She’ll have to be able to sit in the professor's office chatting about Lady Macbeth's “insidious influence on her husband's worldview.” It’s fine to use informal discourse if you know you can shift it up a level or two when you need to.

College and university are settings where words matter and elevated formal discourse is at times expected. No one tells you that explicitly. In fact they will sometimes pretend otherwise but this is only hiding the keys—keeping the secret to themselves. Your ability to shift into such forms of discourse, to frame ideas in precise words or elevated or new words—or frankly sometimes the ability to frame tired and rehashed ideas in new words—is part of the unspoken code of success. These are the forms of language that mark one's expertise in and mastery of a profession—whether anyone tells you that or not.

So consider the value in what happens next. “In AP language, she's gonna talk all this evil stuff in his ear …” Beth says, directing the question back to Ashanti.