# Chapter 2
## Lesson Preparation

If you're familiar with the 2.0 version of *Teach Like a Champion*, you may notice that some of the most significant changes in this latest edition come in this chapter. While much of what I wrote about in the second edition focused on how to *plan* an effective lesson, this chapter endeavors to shine a light on the methods my team and I have observed teachers use as they *prepare* to teach their lessons, instead. Essentially, I've replaced one chapter with another based on the importance implied by the change of a single word: from “*plan*” to “*prepare*.” What's the difference, you might ask, and why the change?

First, preparation is universal. Not everyone writes their own lesson plan every day. Many teachers use a plan written by a colleague or a curriculum provider. Some reuse a plan they wrote previously. But everyone prepares (or, I argue, *should* prepare) their lesson before they teach it. If a lesson plan is a sequence of activities you intend to use, lesson preparation is a set of decisions about *how* you will teach them. Those decisions can determine the lesson's success at least as much as the sequence of activities, but because planning and preparation are readily confused, it's easy to overlook the latter and think once the plan's done, you're ready to roll.

Say you teach the same lesson twice a day: third period and fifth period. Your third-period class is verbal and eager—sometimes so eager that you have to cut off the chatter and digressions to keep them on track. Fifth period is more introverted. Pretty cerebral, actually, but they need some