beneficial. If children have read that much for that long, they will have a massive advantage over their peers,” Facer writes.

## S is for social.

This is the hidden gift of *FASE Reading*. Shared experiences, especially ones with emotional weight or where significant ideas emerge, draw people into communities and give them a sense of belonging. This is what you are doing when you read together—building community and belonging and, not coincidentally, this is in part the role stories and texts have played in our society for longer than there have been schools. Stories and experiences were shared not just among groups but *in groups* as a way to draw people together. It is fitting that this aspect of reading may be our best bet now to elevate its stature above the lonelier forms of communication available through screens.

In *Culturally Responsive Teaching and the Brain*, Zaretta Hammond makes a compelling case for the importance of community in the classroom. We are the most individualist society on earth, she notes. Finding ways to balance ardent individualism with a communal approach is part of culturally responsive teaching—a key way to make the classroom more accessible to students from less individualistic cultures, she argues. At the same time it pushes us to see the benefits of greater emphasis on community and belonging conferred upon some other cultures that value it more highly.

The way we read sometimes reflects that ardent individualism, especially in moments where everyone chooses their own book and reads it on their own. There’s a common argument that students will only love reading if it involves individual choice and while some choice is nice,25 everyone always choosing their own thing means giving up what is collective—the shared text we can all talk about