oral reading as data to inform choices about how ready students are to read this passage independently.18

Kirby asks students to read on their own to the end of the section for about two minutes and to make notes about the “lists” Douglass makes—these are critical to understanding the passage. In assigning a visible annotation task, Kirby sets out to assess students’ status as independent readers —not just generally, but of *this* portion of *this* book.

Because she's given them a specific annotation task, Kirby is able to use *Active Observation* (technique 9) to note trends in comprehension, and as the timer winds down she is optimistic, “Awesome job. You don't need a partner,” she says, deciding to skip a planned *Turn and Talk* (technique 43). Instead she launches into a whole-group discussion. “What is he listing, and why?” she asks.

The subsequent discussion is meant to stamp the understanding students should have gleaned independently from the text, but the text is tricky, and it quickly emerges that not everyone understood as fully as Kirby thought. One student explains that Douglass is listing the challenges he faced while escaping, and Kirby calls on another student to clarify that the lists are hypothetical—none of the challenges listed had actually happened yet. This passage, critically, involves Douglass imagining the risks of escape.

But Kirby is alert to the indications of struggle and asks students to jot a note at the bottom of the page capturing the idea that Douglass is *imagining* in this section. They're doing well in the face of real challenge, but she'll have to be careful about how much she gives them to read on their own. Being able to fly solo with such a challenging book is still a work in progress.

As the clip closes, she says, “I just want to emphasize, it's been [only a few] weeks [since they started the novel] and just think about how well you're understanding this book …