Often, mastering syntactic tools comes as much from revision as it does from the initial act of writing. By revision, I mean the process of asking rigorous but straightforward questions about one's written idea formation: *Does that word capture exactly what I mean? Could I express my idea more precisely, perhaps with fewer words? If I change the order, how would that affect meaning? If my words are unclear, then what exactly did I mean?*¹¹

Most of us submit our own writing to the revision process frequently and, for some of us, constantly. We revise even an informal email to a colleague perhaps, or scratch out and use a different word three times when texting an explanation to a friend about running late. Revision is an everyday thing in the real world but too often a special event in the classroom—a formal activity applied mostly with compositions and longer pieces. It's often encoded in what some teachers call *the writing process*, which can take a week to complete, with each step (drafting, revising, editing) getting its own day. Over the course of the year there are perhaps three or four “revision days.”

I'd argue that to make students' writing powerful and also to allow writing to cause writers to think most deeply—to boost the Think Ratio, that is—revision should always be a part of writing. In some ways the less distinguishable as a “separate step,” the better.

The technique *Regular Revision* pursues the simple idea that we can make student writing better by making revision an everyday act, often done in short simple doses, and by making it a habit to regularly revise all manner of writing, not only formal pieces.

I find this observation of Bruce Saddler's profound: “Sentences represent vehicles of communication that are literally *miniature compositions*,” he writes. We could apply