we become attuned to what we sound like when we start to slip. If we are aware, if we hear it when it happens, we can correct it more quickly.

As this implies there are several skills implicit in managing your register. The first is awareness: What register am I in right now? What is it communicating? Does my register align to my words? Are my words saying “I need your attention” but my body language that “We're just hanging out here”? Am I saying, “I'm not frustrated” when the edge in my voice confirms the contrary?

The second is making changes in register evident with the right degree of emphasis and speed. The changes are subtle in Arielle’s and Denarius's classrooms. They might be less so in other cases.

Register shifts can also be useful when students have not responded as they should the first time. If a student fails to follow a direction, a good first response is to shift noticeably (that is, visibly and, if possible, audibly) into a more formal register, perhaps putting your hands behind your back and changing to a more symmetrical stance—a lot of teachers add a raised eyebrow here as if to show surprise—and then giving the directions again, modulating your voice and leaving a clear gap between each word, which suggests that you have chosen each ... word ... very ... carefully. “Please give me your eyes.” Once this is done you would likely shift back toward something more casual to show the moment is over, though you might retain a formal tone until you begin to see a response from your student.

To summarize: Do the core work of teaching in whatever balance of casual and formal that expresses your style, but when you need full attention, shift noticeably into formal register. And save your urgent register for the truly urgent.