# Introduction to the Third Edition: The Art of Teaching and Its Tools

Great teaching is an art. In the other arts—painting, sculpture, the writing of novels—great masters leverage a proficiency with basic tools to transform the rawest of materials (stone, paper, ink) into the most valued assets in society. This alchemy is all the more astounding because the tools often appear unremarkable to others. Who would look at a chisel, a mallet, and a file and imagine them producing Michelangelo's *David*?

Great art relies on the mastery and application of foundational skills, learned through diligent study—"craftsmanship," if you will. You learn to strike a chisel with a mallet and refine the skill with time, learning at which angle to strike the chisel and how tightly to hold it. Far more important than any theory is your proficiency with the lowly chisel. True, not everyone who learns to drive a chisel will create a *David*, but neither can anyone who *fails* to master the tool do much more than make marks on rocks.

Every artist—teachers included—is an artisan whose task is to study a set of tools and unlock the secrets of their use. The more you understand the chisel, the more it guides you to see what is possible. Rounding a contour with unexpected smoothness, the chisel causes you to realize, suddenly, that you could bring added subtlety to a facial expression, more tension to the muscles of the figure. Mastery of tools does not just *allow* creation; it *informs* it. The process is often far from glamorous; an artist's life is a tradesman's life, really, characterized by calluses and stone