sentence!” People can't replicate it if they don't know about it, so that's one clear benefit to public praise. In addition, the fact that you thought Shanice's work was so good that everybody should hear will make your words memorable to her—but they will stand out more if *all* praise isn't public. Part of what's powerful about the public delivery is that it's a bit unexpected, so it can also be powerful to walk up to Shanice and whisper, “Now that is a strong, active verb. It sounds like you wrote this for a college paper.” In fact, you capture the greatest benefit by delivering positive reinforcement using an unpredictable variety of settings and volumes.

Among the benefits of private praise is that it often sounds especially genuine to the listener because, implicitly, it *is* private and therefore only about her, as opposed to public praise, which is also about those who hear it and your desire for them to observe and possibly replicate what the student you're praising has done. The power of pulling Shanice aside as she enters the classroom and saying, “I just wanted to tell you that I graded the exams last night, and yours was really outstanding,” may be equal to or even greater than your public recognition of her work. When a teacher takes a moment to speak to a student privately, she intimates that what she is going to say to that student is very, very important, and this raises a question: What could be so important? To find that it is a response to your excellent work is both powerful and unexpected for a student.

One further benefit of private praise is that it creates uncertainty and additional privacy around all private interactions, and this is immensely productive. If all of my private and quiet conversations with students were critical (that is, they were all private individual corrections), students might become defensive upon my approach. Further, other students might be motivated to eavesdrop,