pathways that lead from our long-term memory into our working memory, where we can use our memories to think and take action.” By using *Do Now* as a way for students to quickly review critical information from prior lessons, you are setting them up not only for increased engagement in the upcoming lesson, but also ensuring that they are able to retrieve that information at relevant moments later on.

Just as important as the content of your *Do Now* is how you review it with students. The most common downfall I observe is a teacher losing track of time while reviewing answers. Fifteen minutes into a *Do Now* the “opening” has replaced the lesson that was originally planned—or at least has crowded out all of the independent practice and pushed all the timings to the breaking point. Set a timer so you complete your review in about the same amount of time you give students to work on it: three to five minutes. This may require the art of selective neglect. If you give your students eight problems to complete, you may not be able to review all of them. You'll have to choose the two or three that are most important. This makes the period when students are working critical from a Check for Understanding perspective—you'll want to observe carefully to make sure you know which questions most require review, as well as which students can provide answers that are correct or contain useful errors. You'll only have a few minutes to decide this so be ready to draw on the ideas in Active Observation ([technique 9]()).

You can see a great example of Sarah Wright debriefing a *Do Now* in the video *Sarah Wright: But Esperanza*. Here's a copy of her *Do Now* from a lesson on Pam Muñoz-Ryan's novel *Esperanza Rising*,