clear and feasible path to success. A student who loses all of his or her privileges has no incentive to stay in the game.

## Quick

An immediate consequence is more closely associated with the action that caused it than a delayed consequence. If the goal is to shape behavior rather than to punish it, try to give a consequence right away. A smaller consequence in the moment (for example, “Scholars, go back to the door and come into this classroom quietly please”) will often be more effective than a larger consequence that occurs later (“Gentlemen, I will see you here after school”). Quick consequences also reduce the amount of time a student’s behavior remains onstage. This latter benefit removes students’ incentive to engage in attention-seeking behavior and minimizes the odds of escalating behavior.

## Consistent

Responses should be predictable in students’ minds: “If I do X, Y will happen.” If they aren’t sure what will happen, then they have an incentive to “test” and see. Thus consistency and incrementalism go together. We are trying to teach, not punish, so the message should not be *It’s OK sometimes, but not other times.*

Consistently using the same language reduces the transaction costs involved with giving consequences, and also makes them more legible to students (for example, “Michael, please don’t call out, two scholar dollars” or “Michael, calling out, two scholar dollars”^12). Students won’t have to worry about trying to decipher your consequences and you won’t have to spend time and explaining. And of course you’ll want to explain what calling out is and why it’s a problem in advance. What is expected of students should be defined for them.