# Props

Props are a form of public praise for students who demonstrate excellence or exemplify virtues. If you can consistently enable classmates to deliver resounding praise to one another in two seconds flat, you can build a culture that valorizes achievement and effort without sacrificing order or time on task. As students come to relish the culture of Props, you might even teach them a wide variety of them (see the end of the chapter for a list of suggestions) and let a student nominate Props for a classmate who did a great job.

The key is to invest the time at the outset to teach students to give Props the right way: crisply, quickly, and enthusiastically, just as you would with any routine. Ensuring that you teach your students to deliver Props that meet the following criteria will go a long way to ensuring your success:

- **Quick.** You should be able to cue a Prop in one second. Similarly, the Prop itself should be fast because you don't have time to waste and because there's nothing less energizing than an exhortation that starts strong but peters out. If it's not sharp, reinforce with *Do It Again* (*technique 51*, later in this chapter) and make sure to get it right.

- **Visceral.** Props are often powerful when they rely on movement and sound, especially percussive sound. Props that don't use much in the way of words are less likely to get tiresome; their half-life is longer because there's no phrase to wear out. A quick “Oh, yeah,” is fine, but something like “On the way to college!” is likely to get old (and show its age) quickly. Furthermore, there's something fun