*Addeo: Binomials.* Like Denarius, she's carrying a page of notes as she works the room. She explained what was on it.

“My ‘key’ mirrors exactly what students should have on their paper, including the question, the work that they should be showing, and the correct answer, boxed,” Julia told me. “I leave some room on the side to make checks and notes as I monitor the classroom. I keep a tally of how students did or the initials of names that I know I want to *Show Call* or *Cold Call*.”

As she observes, she quickly notes that students are doing fine with problem number 1. She won't need more than a quick review afterwards to reinforce technical vocabulary. But her observations reveal that there's something going on in problem 2. You can see her marking up her notes with details on the errors students are making. Then you can see her literally step back, review the data, and make a decision about how to proceed—as that decisive nod of her head about thirty-seven seconds in reveals.

Tracking the data in writing has freed her working memory. Rather than merely trying to remember what she's seen, it can now focus on analyzing what students are doing. Her use of *Active Observation* allows her later to *Cold Call* students who she knows will contribute strong explanations when she's reviewing the problem. These students often do an exemplary job of explaining concepts to their peers. This is not a lucky accident. She has used the knowledge gained from her *Active Observation* to choose participants intentionally and even strategically.

In *Front the Writing* (*technique 40*) and *Disciplined Discussions* (*technique 46*) I call this idea *“Hunting, Not Fishing.”* You *hunt* for productive answers that will move the conversation in a productive direction as you circulate. Then later you draw on them while teaching so you don't have to *fish*—call on students more or less randomly,