As it is now, teachers spend an immense amount of time giving students feedback on their writing. We mark up their essays with comment after comment we hope they'll read—when we return their papers in three or four weeks—and perhaps apply, at an undetermined time in the future. Often by the time they read our reams of feedback they barely remember writing the original. In addition to the time lag, there's also usually too much feedback to use. Most of it will get ignored and students will then practice ignoring feedback. I'm your student and among the fifteen suggestions you have on my three-page paper is to use more active verbs and to make my thesis statement clearer. Perhaps I'll find opportunities to use active verbs. Perhaps I won't. But usually there is no clear and immediate opportunity to even begin to try to respond and apply to this plethora of “opportunities for improvement.” Even if I wanted to try to make all of your changes, it is likely to take another month to get an opportunity.

Of course you could guarantee me the chance to rewrite my thesis by asking me to revise the whole essay but the transaction cost is high. For both of us. I rewrite the essay—as do my twenty-nine classmates on their own essays—and you're back to three weeks of dreading the stack of thirty essays staring at you accusingly from the corner of your desk.

So what if we, as teachers, applied our feedback not to writing of the largest unit size but of the smallest? What if I wrote a sentence and you suggested I rewrite it with more active verbs and I did it right then and there? Three minutes later you'd say, “Yes, much better, Doug. See how different your sentence is?” And I'd agree, because I could see that I had made a difference by making an immediate and focused change. I could look at the before and after to see the change. And then perhaps you'd say, “Try another.” Or next you might say, “Here's another one-sentence