once instead of just one. In a short time you've allowed almost everyone the chance to share an answer.

- It can increase reluctant students' willingness to speak in larger settings. A student rehearses an idea she might not offer in front of thirty people, and finds it comes out well or earns admiration from her partner. She becomes more willing to share her idea with the whole group.

- It's a great response when the class appears stuck. You ask a question, get only a smattering of hands or perhaps none at all, and respond: “Hmmm. No one seems quite sure. *Turn and Talk* with your partner for thirty seconds. See if you can come up with some ideas. Go!” Suddenly you have a workaround for explaining the answer.

- It can allow you to listen in on conversations and choose valuable comments to start discussion with, as in, “Maria, would you mind sharing what you and Justine talked about?”

But there are challenges to go with the benefits. Because it *can* result in fifteen people talking at once does not mean it *will*, and a disengaged *Turn and Talk* where there's little turning and even less talking is a culture killer. And there are a variety of accountability challenges:

- Conversations may wander off the assigned topic and may never even address the topic at all. (It is, after all, exciting to have the chance to chat with your friend in the middle of class.)

- There is the risk that students in a *Turn and Talk* listen poorly—that their partner is merely a target for their own words and not a source of insight.