like the people here, and I'm pretty confident that I'm in charge.” You can see Patrick Pastore's bright face when he looks up to scan his class most days. He starts with a smile, not a scowl. His bright, pleasant face is confident. His plan, it says, is to trust but verify. This is very different from a teacher whose scowl says *I'm not happy here, I'm worried about students following my directions*, or even *I'm waiting for them not to do what I ask, because I'm sure it's going to happen*. That can be a self-fulfilling prophecy.

To underscore, your bright face does not have to be a huge, beaming smile especially if it's not sincere. It's just a pleasant expression that exudes a degree of positivity and confidence that matches your style and the age group of your students. With kindergartners, it might really be an irrepressible smile. With high schoolers, it might be a bit more subdued.

It's important to use such a face whenever possible but it's especially good to show it immediately after or even during a redirection or correction—first, to remind students generally that all is well, and second, to remind particularly the student who you may have had to redirect that they are still in your good stead.

## Rule 6: Use Your Confirmation Glance

Trust, and demonstrating trust, are among the most important things you can communicate in building a relationship with others. Showing trust is self-fulfilling—if you signal that you trust, students will follow through when you make a request.

There are times when it's critical to ask and then look or walk away and show that you trust students to follow through. A confirmation glance is the ideal tool to use to verify follow-through. To use it, you walk away and then glance strategically back. Sometimes a student needs just a