developed.⁵) You can see that her question is already written in a packet that all students have on their desks. Students’ task is to begin writing as soon as they read it. She explicitly calls the habit of independent writing *Silent Solo*, by the way. It’s a catchy phrase but it also reminds her students of the rules. We took the name of this habit from hearing a teacher—we’re not sure who!—use that phrase: *Silent Solo*. Two minutes. What has Cassie just found out? Go.

A few other things you’ll see Emily do (and the time in the video where you see them):

- 0:18: Emily sets up a challenge task that students “get” to do if they’re done early. It’s framed positively (a challenge) but one big excuse for why they wouldn’t be writing (“I’m done!”) has already been eliminated.
- 0:26: Emily sets the timer. This makes the goal of writing for three minutes real and tangible. (For more, see technique 30, *Work the Clock*.)
- 0:29: Emily slows down her pace in circulating and looks carefully to see if students are following through—carefully enough for them to notice her in their peripheral vision. The message is: I am looking carefully to see if everyone is writing. If you show it matters to you, it will be far more likely to matter to students.
- 0:32: Emily narrates her expectation: She is “looking for a table where everybody’s pencil is moving.” There’s that clear-cut unambiguous activation step.
- 0:35: Emily notes examples of good follow-through by Ezra, Logan, and others.
- 1:02: Emily tells one student who would prefer to talk than write: “Don’t tell me, write it down.” Her tone is