end the teacher may also have to set limits. If the work is late, there should be a penalty. You prepare the child for the road, not the road for the child.

There are caveats, of course. Sustaining strictness in the long run requires caring and warmth; students have to trust your intentions to do what is best for them even if they don't always like each decision. And ideally they should feel the caring most *in the moments you set limits*. A reset on expectations is a good time to smile. If there's one thing I've learned from studying teachers as a parent it is that if you said you'd give a consequence, you give the consequence, but you are also quick to tell the person you care about them and can't wait for things to be back to normal; for example, *You'll have to serve your detention, Michael, but I look forward to seeing you back in class tomorrow*. As Jo Facer puts it, “Having strict rules means you love children and want the best for them. Make sure you communicate that with your face and body language.”

Consider this interaction between Hasan Clayton and one of his students, a fifth grader whom I'll call Kevin, after Hasan noticed Kevin sleeping during a remote lesson (in 2020, that is). After class Hasan asked Kevin to stay on the call after his classmates left.

> Hasan: I noticed you were sleeping in class, Kevin.  
> Kevin: (Long pause. No answer.)  
> Hasan: Am I correct? Or am I wrong?  
> Kevin: You're correct.  
> Hasan: Why were you sleeping in class?  
> Kevin: I don't know. I thought I got a good sleep yesterday, but I still got tired.  
> Hasan: That's not good. Do you know how much material you're missing when you're sleeping?