In this chapter I am going to talk about talking but I am going to try to talk at least as much about listening. While we should encourage speaking, it's the listening—and maybe ideally the speaking in conjunction with careful listening—that's most valuable in our discussions.

A clear mental model is a good starting point. Something other than “talk more and talk louder” should shape our purpose. If we aren't clear on how discussion is different from students merely talking, students talking may be all we get.3

In this chapter I discuss tools for building more productive discussions. I'll begin with *Turn and Talk*, a procedure for pair discussions. One benefit of a classroom where pair conversations are excellent is that those conversations can support and improve many of the habits that support larger whole-group discussions. Second, I'll talk about *Habits of Discussion*, which describes how to build productive habits to foster collaboration and cohesiveness in discussions. I'll then discuss *Batch Processing*: letting students speak after and respond to one another often in short sequences. I'll close with *Disciplined Discussion*, which suggests that helping people stay on topic and follow a thread is an overlooked skill. We tend to valorize “outside the box” ideas but “inside the box” comments are often far more valuable.

## TECHNIQUE 43: TURN AND TALK

*Turn and Talk*—a short, contained pair discussion—is a common teaching tool used in thousands of classrooms and it offers a lot of benefits. Among others:

- It boosts Participation Ratio. You say “Why is Scout afraid? *Turn and Talk* to your partner for thirty seconds. Go!” and suddenly fifteen voices are going at