Asking and answering such questions has profound effects. First, if you have thought through the question (or task or problem) from the students' point of view and thought about what they may misunderstand, you are more likely to spot those misunderstandings when they occur. This will not only help prevent inattentional blindness—that is, students make mistakes, but you don't notice it—but it will also help you to take more productive action in at least two ways if you do observe misunderstandings.

Thinking through likely student errors in advance helps you to avoid “burying the data.” Let's say you're teaching the subtly crafted scene in *The Giver* where the narrator, Jonas, sees color for the first time but, because he doesn't understand what color is, remains confused. The scene is written to merely suggest what's happened to Jonas. It describes the flashes of red he sees from an uncomprehending point of view. It ends unresolved. Students often remain confused as well.

A teacher would want to anticipate that students might not understand this scene or its importance. But merely noticing that students get this wrong is not enough. Teachers frequently “bury the data”—that is, they recognize that students are making an error or are struggling with a misunderstanding but they fail to address it, perhaps hoping that it will resolve itself. Perhaps sometimes it will, but more often the misunderstanding compounds. Students read several chapters without realizing that they should be very attentive to the changes in Jonas's vision.

Why do we sometimes ignore the data in this way, recognizing a misunderstanding but not doing anything about it? Honestly, there are lots of reasons. Acting on the data means tearing up your lesson plan in front of thirty seventh-graders and planning an alternative on the spur of