the structure of electron shells help us explain the behavior of the noble gases? Go,” students have almost their entire working memory focused on the question and almost none on an array of potential extraneous distractions: *Who am I supposed to talk to? Does she want to talk to me? Is everyone else going to do it? Should I be writing this down?*

Cues are always the first step in any routine. “A routine,” continues Mccrea, “is a sequence of actions triggered by a specific prompt or cue that is repeated so often it becomes an automatic [or nearly automatic] response.” The cue starts the chain of actions for any habit. So *Means of Participation* involves framing clear routines for each of the formats by which students participate in your class and then signaling quickly, reliably (and often subtly) to students which format you'd like them to use. The cue sets students up to engage confidently, correctly, and with minimal load on working memory. If students participate in less than optimal ways—calling out answers when we don't want them to or not answering when we hope they will—it's often because we haven't clearly communicated the *Means of Participation* for a given question. Considering student responses through this lens can also help us to assume the best (see [technique 59](#), *Positive Framing*). When students call out or engage in other behaviors we weren't expecting, considering whether our own framing of *Means of Participation* might have been unclear can be a helpful first step.

Watch again and you can see how intentional Sadie's cues are. Her “default”—the system of expectation for how to participate unless signaled otherwise—is that if she asks a question you raise your hand if you want to answer. There is always, also, the possibility of a *Cold Call*. This clarity about how to answer allows her to both take hand-raisers or *Cold Call* and to allow as much *Wait Time* as she likes. Students understand this because she has explained it to