# Chapter 9  
## Building Ratio Through Discussion  

Stephen Covey observed more than thirty years ago that “most people do not listen with the intent to understand. They listen with the intent to reply.”^1 This observation has perhaps never been truer than today, when we risk running classrooms that echo the increasingly dominant and counterproductive forms of discussion evidenced on social media—one side blasting a point of view they are sure cannot be wrong or even nuanced at the opposite side, who are busy preparing an equally righteous return salvo. The goal of being proven right in a discussion is very different from the goal of learning from it. Without careful listening, a clear shared purpose, and a sense that discussion is supposed to add to our collective and individual understanding, we’re not really getting what we should out of it. Perhaps without those things we’re not even discussing at all.  

It is at least worth asking whether our classrooms might unintentionally be contributing to the larger social trend of discourse characterized by an excess of righteous pronouncements and far less listening or seeking nuance. Do we teach our students to listen well? That a question can be more powerful than a pronouncement? To assume their first impression might be wrong, and just maybe to believe they have succeeded if and when they changed their thinking? Wisdom, mostly, is realizing how little you know. How much talking there is and how avidly it’s offered is often the criteria by which we measure our discussions. Talking, after all, is easy to see and measure. But we might be better served by socializing students to listen and proceed with a mindset that says, “I probably have a lot to