affects the student involved? Do I take motivation into account when I can? Do we as a school or a grade-team make these decisions similarly and consistently?

- **About Delivery:** Am I as private as I can be? Do I attempt to drop my voice or whisper if in public? Am I emotionally constant in asking the student to focus on his or her own actions? Do I tag the behavior, so my students know what I think they've done wrong? Am I quick and do I get back to teaching promptly, ideally including the student in question in the lesson?

- **Discipline:** Have I explained and taught my expectations? Have I explained and maybe even practiced with my students what to do when a consequence is given, generally and specifically, and what to do when and if a consequence is given and the student(s) do not agree? Is there a process for students who get consequences they don't agree with to follow?

# TECHNIQUE 58: STRONG VOICE

The communication we are consciously aware of amounts to only a portion—sometimes a small one—of the communication we actually do.14 We may *think* our listeners are attending to the content of our words but that's only partly true. When people listen, they react to an array of signals (tone, expression, and body language) that begin influencing them right away. “Affective reactions are so tightly integrated with perception that we find ourselves liking or disliking something the instant we notice it, sometimes even before we know what it is,” writes the social psychologist Jonathan Haidt.15 In his book *The Righteous Mind* he describes the process of belief and opinion formation in cognitive terms and finds that humans typically have instant reactions based on factors they