carefully, but it was the same apple. Unchanged. The same size and shape: a perfect sphere. The same nondescript shade, about the same shade as his own tunic.”

I might first draw students' attention to the words “nondescript shade.” Why those words for the apple's color? What did it imply? Were apples usually noted for being nondescript in color? Why were they throwing an apple, by the way? Why not a ball? Could there be something symbolic there?

Or, depending on the group, or how much time I had, I might say, “This passage implies that Jonas is seeing color for the first time, but he doesn't know what it is because he's never seen it. Let's go back and reread this scene and I want you to tell me how Lowry communicates both the fact that he could see color but also his confusion.”

Now I've developed two possible responses. I can read the room and my students and make a decision about which way to go. But in the moment I decide I won't be starting from scratch and choosing a lesson path I have considered only on the spur of the moment.

To review what we've discussed so far, planning for error means predicting errors and planning how you will respond, intentionally thinking through (and writing down) what students will misunderstand about key questions in the lesson and then planning potential corrective actions should those misunderstandings occur.

This is potentially a time-consuming process, so I think it's important to be realistic about it. Should you do it for every question you ask? I would argue not. The goal is to build a manageable and sustainable habit. Again how much depends on teacher and context: New or experienced teacher? New or familiar content? Challenging topic? As a