away time in activities they know don't result in learning. A teacher who pushes students to work hard, to write an essay they are truly proud of, a teacher who does not have to shout at students for work to get done, a teacher who, by teaching well, builds a student's interest in and then love for a subject, builds relationships.

I recently came across a list for teachers on a popular website: “Ten Ways to Build Relationships with Students.” It included some good advice (“Apologize when you mess up”) but also some more questionable guidance: “Do crazy things,” “Talk to them about non-school-related subjects,” and “Share inspirational stories from your life.” It’s worth considering whether those actions can be distractions from more important things. Talking to students about unrelated subjects is fine—some may appreciate it—but not nearly as important as talking to them about school-related subjects. Sharing inspirational stories might be fine, but proceed with caution. My own children have heard mine many, many times now and it’s possible they don’t find them to be quite the touchstones I do. One teacher I had in school could reliably be counted on for a twenty-minute digression if you got him going on his stories. I’m not sure how many relationships were built but his interest in telling them would reliably result in the test being pushed back by at least a day. As for doing “crazy things,” it risks as much harm as good. You’re a teacher, not a performer. It makes more sense to spend your time preparing to teach really well, with warmth, humanity, attentiveness, and encouragement. The real question is whether you can inspire young people by awakening their curiosity and opening the doors of knowledge to them.

The relationship we want is at least in part a triangle, with the teacher connecting to the student about content and with the goal of inspiring them to build a relationship to the