emphasis on understanding the purpose of the techniques. “Brilliant teaching always begins with clear vision and a sound purpose,” Adeyemi Stembridge writes in *Culturally Responsive Education in the Classroom*. “The teacher who deeply understands this is … able to evoke brilliance from even the most mundane of strategies” (p. 154). Put another way, “Everything works somewhere and nothing works everywhere,” as Dylan Wiliam writes. Impeccable technique at exactly the wrong time or for the wrong reason is a dead-end street.

After a school visit not long ago, my colleague Darryl Williams reflected on an example. We’d seen a teacher engage her students beautifully—every hand eagerly in the air for most of her lesson. The energy was palpable and, as a reader of *Teach Like a Champion* might point out, the participation ratio was high. There were lots of opportunities to Turn and Talk. But Darryl had felt as though something was off. The questions themselves were insubstantial and the answers were vague. The teacher had not thought through what the most important questions were and what good answers would sound like in advance. “If people try to use techniques to compensate for a lack of clarity about their content, the lesson won’t work,” Darryl said.

Compare that to Sadie McCleary’s teaching in the video *Sadie McCleary: Keystone*. She too uses Turn and Talks to boost the ratio in her classroom. Hands are in the air and students engage dynamically. But her intentionality about what technique she’s choosing and why is remarkable. Sadie described her thinking this way: