Have a rubric or an answer sheet ready even if the work appears pretty straightforward. *This will free working memory and speed your ability to process.*

Consider how long each student might need to complete the task. Work would ideally be challenging or complex enough that students would tend to finish at different times, spreading out the checking required of the teacher so there was less waiting. *Affirmative Checking* might work well in writing classes, for example, where students typically complete drafts at very different paces, staggering the checkpoints from the teacher's perspective; however, it would be important to keep the check focused. You won't be able to read each student's first draft but you could ask students to circle five dynamic verbs or two indirect quotations or their thesis paragraph.

It can be helpful to add optional work. If you gave students three problems in one stage of a problem set but made the third a bonus question (or extra credit, perhaps), you could start checking students who had completed one or two. If students finished simultaneously and had to wait, they could go on to the third problem while you checked others' work. This might sound contradictory—isn't the point here to check before you go on? The difference is that the third problem would be at the same level of difficulty as the first two, so it would create an extra buffer of (productive) time in which you could complete your checking.

You may also consider making the signal for “I’m ready” the sort of cue that students can give while continuing to work. Keeping his or her hand in the air for three minutes makes it all but impossible for the student to go on to another problem. But an index card that’s green on one side and yellow on the other, for example, can be flipped to show “I’m ready to be checked” while continuing to work on the bonus problem.