understandings in students' minds and to avoid massive misunderstandings or simple failures of learning.

The first is to break up new material into steps and teach and practice them sequentially. The second is the use of annotated models or work samples instead of rubrics to help students develop an understanding of the parts of a complex task.

Perhaps consciousness, too, is curative. Teachers should always be on the lookout for any points they may have overlooked, which may be obvious to them but a source of confusion to students. You have listed the hard vocabulary words in the chapter and taught them, but there are some simpler words that confuse your students. You understand that two events happened a hundred years apart but your students lack your chronology and think they happened at roughly the same time. What exactly the points of confusion will turn out to be remains a mystery. That they exist is a very good bet.

# THE GUIDANCE FADING EFFECT

Novices learn differently from experts. This is one of the most important findings of educational psychologists and, as far as I can tell, one of the least recognized by educational theorists. The tendency of novices to benefit from more direct guidance and experts to get more from problem-solving situations, cognitive psychologist John Sweller calls *the guidance fading effect*. “Students should initially be given lots of explicit guidance to reduce their working memory load, which assists in transferring knowledge to long-term memory,” he writes. “Once students are more knowledgeable, that guidance is unnecessary and … should be faded out and replaced by problem-solving.” This is both useful and unusual guidance. (Unusual because Sweller does not propose one inherently