skip: pacing.” If she gets in trouble, that's the first question to go. One very small detail you might consider: including the actual time of day as opposed to running time of your lesson. It's easier to see when you are over time at 10:35 a.m. than “at twenty-two minutes.”

**Back-Pocket Questions:** Back-packet questions are the ones you'll fall back on when students struggle with the initial question in your lesson. They're hard to think of in the moment and trying to do so slows you down. Plus you may not think of exactly the right follow-up question in the moment and there's a greater chance than normal that the question won't be perfect, so may confuse the student you're hoping to help. So sketching out a few potential back-pocket questions in the calm before you teach and writing them down where you can find them easily is a great practice. You can see examples of this in Christine's packet. You can see how she's planned to respond in case students struggle to make sense of the sentence “We enjoy escaping into the fantasy of a happy ending.” She'll ask, “Why do people like reading and listening to them?” to help students realize fairy tales are a form of pleasure that's not supposed to be realistic—they're supposed to be escapist.

ins out over lies, kindness is rewarded, obstacles are overcome by hard work and love, er evil. We enjoy escaping into the fantasy of a happy ending.

What is the purpose of fairy tales?

Why do ppl. like  
reading/listening to them?

purpose of fairy tales, why would Annemarie include “feasts of pink frosted cupcakes” in

**Segues:** Part of what makes well-prepared lessons effective is that the teacher connects upcoming content to the previous task or to what's coming. Take this example from Laura Baxter's fourth-grade class in Nashville, Tennessee, in their study of *Esperanza Rising*. The class has just wrapped up the vocabulary portion of the lesson, and Laura shares that her favorite of the new words they've studied is