everyone will naturally participate with interest and enthusiasm, then you get the kind of crackling energy you see in Christine’s, BreOnna’s, Sarah’s, Denarius’s, and Sadie's classrooms.

It's critical that *Turn and Talk* become a familiar and well-rehearsed procedure, in other words, and it's critical that it be launched with an in-cue that is both a direction—here is what to do—and signal to start and so should be short, crisp, and clear. You need just enough words to clarify the question and the task; beyond that, keeping the in-cue short and punchy creates energy.

It's no coincidence then that the in-cues we see are so similar.

The recipe is **Frame. Name. [Time]. Go!** in almost every case. Teachers frame the question clearly, then identify that the task is a *Turn and Talk*, and then (sometimes) set a time context. Then they give a consistent signal to start. That the signal is so often “Go!” is no surprise, given the goal of building an immediately visible norm of positive engagement.

It's worth lingering for a moment on the first step, framing the question. Once a strong procedure has been installed (see [techniques 49] and [50] in particular for guidance on this critical step), the framing is the trickiest part. It's very hard to jump into a discussion with energy and verve if you're not clear on the question or what it means. And this means, for teachers, the question for discussion should be carefully phrased and quite possibly drafted in advance. Sometimes you will use one reactively in the moment—“Hmm. We're a little divided on the answer. Turn and discuss with your partner...”—but for the most part teachers like the ones we've watched have likely drafted their *Turn and Talks* in their notes. You can see an example of how Christine prepares this part of her lesson in [Chapter Two].