as she pauses briefly before identifying Jovon as the student who will answer. As she does this every hand goes down, as if to say *Jovon, we are listening. It's your turn.* Seconds later Christine says, “Read the situation for me loud and proud …” and again almost every hand goes up before she calls on Juju, whereupon, again, everyone's hand goes down. This reminds students: now is the time to listen to what Juju says, not to be thinking of what you would have said. Seconds later Christine asks, “What did the girl do in this situation? Use the definition.” Again every hand goes up. Now it's Etani's turn and the process of putting hands down—again, this happens on cue because Christine has taught it—reminds students of the rest of the routine implicit in someone else getting called on. Putting one's hand down to listen cues the next step in listening behavior: giving Etani eye contact. James Clear describes this as “habit stacking,” where one habit leads to another and a series of positive actions can reliably result if they are connected consistently to a relatively simple first action.

Beyond the effect of each individual interaction, in Christine's use of *All Hands* you can clearly see the mileposts flying past. The illusion of speed has been created. A traditionally slow activity—vocabulary—has been brought to life.

## Press Pause on Digressions

Sometimes we lightheartedly refer to managing a group of people as herding cats. In any group of people, some will occasionally just wander off in their own direction, physically or intellectually—even when it's beneficial or appropriate to stick together. When you've got ground to cover as a teacher, you can't always let everyone just head off on a tangent. A good cowboy has to know how to bring