charitable, positive, and optimistic mindset is a healthier way to go through life.²

All of which is a bit of a digression—at least if thinking about student well-being is ever a digression. My point is that as teachers, remembering to assume the best and say to students “My directions must not have been clear enough” rather than “Some of you weren't listening to the directions” actually causes us to interrupt our own tendency to make the fundamental attribution error³ and instead ask: Actually, were my directions clear enough? Perhaps not.

When I saw classrooms where techniques I'd described were used in a way that did not feel right, I strove to ask myself: Were my directions clear enough? Why might people forget? Was the reason techniques were occasionally misapplied a result of what I'd written—or of what I had left unsaid?

The answer, of course, was sometimes yes. How could it not be? Teaching is difficult work done under complex and often challenging conditions. It would be impossible to get everything right—for a teacher and certainly for someone seeking to describe what teachers did or might do.

I return to this topic later, but for now I'll describe one resulting change in this version of the book: Keystone Videos. These are extended videos (most are about ten minutes long) intended to show a longer arc of a teacher's lesson where they use multiple techniques in combination. They convey a broader sense of what the culture and ethos of exceptional classrooms look like and the ways techniques combine and interact. I've added them because to show a technique with clarity sometimes requires a degree of focus that both reveals and distorts a teacher's work.