# Self-Checking

Giving consequences to students is hard. It rarely makes them happy. It rarely make teachers happy. There's the risk that despite your best efforts to always be fair and accurate and judicious you will be wrong in giving a consequence, in the single case or perhaps you will have misunderstood a particular student even more broadly. There will be a student in whom you somehow see the wrong more than she deserves or one whom you never quite notice when she gives her best. And yet it's necessary to set limits for students. Tom Bennett's guidance that “Treating students as having responsibility over their actions is vital if we are to teach them to accept responsibility for themselves, to manage their own lives and grow in maturity” is helpful to keep in mind. So are these four sets of questions to ask yourself, to help you make sure you're on the right path.

- **About Design:** Is your consequence system scaled and gradual? Are there small consequences students can use to learn lessons at low cost? Are the consequences incremental and scaled? Do they always specify the behavior that caused them so students know and can learn from what they did wrong? Is the system aligned across the school? Are there positive consequences as well, so students' positive behavior is also reinforced? Is positive reinforcement intermittent, occasional, and framed in appreciation of extra effort (rather than an expectation)?

- **About the Decision:** Am I more inclined to give consequences for persistent and repetitive behaviors and less inclined to give corrections for single low-level incidents? Am I more inclined to give consequences for behaviors that disrupt the learning opportunities for other students or endanger their safety? Am I more inclined to give corrections for behavior that only