to recall and reflect on how they entered the classroom. *Doing It Again* shortens the feedback loop in comparison to almost any other consequence.

- *It sets a standard of excellence, not just minimal follow-through.* *Do It Again* is appropriate not just for times when students do something poorly; it's ideal for times when students do something “just fine” when the goal is excellence. Saying, “That was good, but I want great” or “In this class, we're going to strive to do everything world class; let's see if we can use a bit more expression when we read” enables a teacher to set a standard of excellence, where good can always be better and better can always shoot for best. This can drive your classroom culture by replacing acceptable with excellent, first in the small things and then in all things.

- *It promotes group culture and accountability.* Although individuals can easily be asked to *Do It Again*, the technique is especially effective as a response to group endeavors. If three or four students don't bother to engage in the *Turn and Talk* the best solution may be to pause the whole class and say, “Just a second. A couple of us might have been distracted at the beginning of that *Turn and Talk*. It's important that we all engage the question and our partner. I'll cue you again and I look forward to seeing your best conversational skills. Go!” As an aside, there are times when it feels wrong to hold groups too accountable for individuals who try to co-opt their purposes. Suffice it to say that because you can leverage group accountability does not mean you should in every situation.

- *It ends with success.* The last thing you remember of an event often shapes your perception of it more broadly. *Do It Again* ends a situation where a process was done