celebrate Akheem's answer but when the clapping and celebrating is done, she picks it right back up again.

Why, you might wonder, has Sarah's exemplar plan become her right hand (and Denarius's and Julia's and Christine's, as well) as she teaches? Thinking back to our discussion of the limited capacity of working memory can help to explain it. By familiarizing herself deeply with the target answer to every question, Sarah can be thinking not “What’s the answer?” when she hears or reads student work but rather “Where and how are they confused?” She is able to respond quickly and nimbly and to be fully present while teaching because far more of her working memory is allocated to perception than a comparable teacher who is also using working memory to remember things. She is calm enough to remember to smile, confident enough in her plan to celebrate greatness, to laugh at silliness, and to encourage risk-taking. Having the exemplar in hand speeds her progress around the room and helps her get to everybody.

A final point to reiterate about exemplar planning: It makes for excellent professional development in two ways. First, there are arguably few better conversations among teachers in a department than “What constitutes an outstanding answer to the following (important) question?” To discuss those things for six or eight questions would be a crucial and powerful form of intellectual preparation. It’s hard to imagine a better department meeting. We review the book, but we also hear ideas that we may not have considered. A teacher saying Oh, I’m definitely adding that to my exemplar is a teacher expanding their knowledge of the content they teach. My colleague Paul Bambrick-Santoyo calls this process “sparring with the exemplar”: You script your best answer and then sit down with colleagues and compare yours to theirs. Teachers leave intellectually prepared, with a deep understanding of the book and quite possibly differing perspectives on it. And of