word *didn't* judges a one-time event. It leaves open the possibility that the person you are talking to usually does the right thing but failed to in this instance. It's one moment; we can fix it quickly.

But as some readers may have already noticed, even *didn't* focuses on the problem rather than the solution. Compare: “You *didn't* put effort into your lab write-up” to “You **must always** put your best effort into your lab write-ups.” Or “You **are capable of much more carefully written write-ups**.”

*Demonstrate that consequences are temporary.* Move on quickly and show students that when they have responded to a mistake via consequence or restitution, it is then in the past. Smile and greet them naturally as soon as possible afterwards to show that they are starting with a clean slate. You might tell a student, regarding her consequence, “After you're done, I can't wait to have you come back and show us your best.”

## TECHNIQUE 62: EMOTIONAL CONSTANCY

School is a sort of social laboratory for students; it is often the place where the greatest number of their interactions with broader society occur, and where, inevitably and fittingly, they experiment with decisions about the nature of their relationships with the people and institutions around them.

Even an experiment that ends perfectly contains some trial and error. A theory is developed (“Perhaps I don't need to do my homework every day”), tested, and evaluated (“OK, I think it is better when I do my homework”). Theory testing is one of the primary activities of youth, as I suspect your recollections of your own can attest—mine certainly do. In