engaging and energetic lesson draws students in. Watch a few moments of Sadie McCleary's chemistry class at Guildford East HS in Guildford, North Carolina. Students are happy because they are busily engaged in meaningful work throughout; because when they walk in the room the chemistry lesson starts right away and has them thinking deeply and actively from the first minute. This is arguably more gratifying than walking into a classroom where a teacher spends the first five minutes asking everyone how they're doing.

In his book *The Happiness Advantage*, Shawn Achor reminds us that there are several parts to the concept of happiness. Accomplishment (seeing your own progress) and engagement (losing yourself in something) are critical components of happiness—as powerful as pleasure in causing happiness, even if far less often acknowledged. Further, when you know your lesson well and aren't thinking of what question to ask on the spur of the moment, you can be more responsive and observant; your working memory can be employed in perceiving how students are reacting to the work and how effective their answers are. Quite simply, you are more present.

Relationships are often based on the mastery of a dozen tiny skills from across the chapters in this book. A small element of the technique *Positive Framing* called Assume the Best is a game changer, for example. As with all of *Positive Framing* it will help you to give students the constructive feedback they deserve in a way that reminds them that you care about them and believe in them. Furthermore, it asks you to construct plausible reasons for low-level unproductivity. “Sorry, my directions weren't clear; this is a silent writing activity,” is a big improvement on “It needs to be silent in here.” It exudes calm and poise and shows students that when they don't follow direction your first instinct is to think: *Well, there must be some*