intervention. “Much better,” he says to one student as he circulates. Think about that. He remembers how she did on a similar problem earlier in the day or perhaps the day before and tells her he can see the difference in her work. He’s able to do this because in tracking the data on student performance he engages more actively with it, and therefore remembers it. And with his observations written down, he can review his notes after one lesson or before the next. When you put your observations on paper you create a permanent record, increase the amount you remember, and free your working memory to perceive more. The result is that Denarius remembers how his student did yesterday and can affirm her progress today. Could there be a stronger statement of the fact that he believes her progress is important?

More than just writing things down, Active Observation means deciding intentionally what to look for and maintaining discipline in looking for what you have prioritized. We know from cognitive psychology that observation is subjective and unreliable; we won’t notice what’s most important unless we prepare to focus on it and are looking for it. We’re also inclined to think that looking for more things is better than attending to fewer things, but that’s often not the case in the classroom.

In one of my first teaching jobs a mentor advised me to circulate around the room when my students were doing independent work. That was good advice. Walking around and looking over this or that student’s shoulder encouraged students to do their best work, in part because my actions suggested that I cared about what they were writing and was interested in their ideas, and, frankly, that I would know how hard they were working. But there was a lot more I could have done to get the most out of that “walking around.”