believed misreadings about the article. Suddenly, he had some mopping up to do.

There are times, this story reminds us, when even with efficient and accountable systems, *Turn and Talks* can be dominated by the spread of low-quality ideas—or erroneous ones. In the class I watched, the teacher stumbled on this fact through the good fortune of hearing answers that revealed the problems, and the wise decision to process the *Turn and Talk* through a broader, teacher-led discussion afterwards. But let’s pause here to consider all of the *Turn and Talks* where misinformation has blithely and earnestly been spread among participating students who did not know that what they were hearing (or saying and driving into memory) was dead wrong, all without the teacher being aware of it. As Graham Nuttall points out in *The Hidden Lives of Learners*, peer-generated misinformation can be profoundly influential on student thinking.

A *Turn and Talk* by itself is a great tool for boosting Participation Ratio, then. It multiplies voices and gets everyone going by giving them a low-stakes way to share ideas, rehearse a larger thought, develop their first impression, or hear an alternative reaction, all in semi-private, where saying, “Whoops, actually that was a really bad idea!” is fine. But *Turn and Talk* can also involve students sharing ideas that need development and clarification. It can involve the spreading of misinformation and confirmation bias. It can generate thinking that requires more reflection and direction.

Perhaps the most useful way to think about *Turn and Talk* is as a rehearsal for some other activity: a whole-class discussion, a written synthesis, a charting and comparison of ideas generated. The *Turn and Talk*’s purpose is generative—let’s get a lot of ideas going, figure out what makes sense, and why. After a *Turn and Talk*, the ideas that