excellence in reading, writing, science, and math, and therefore leave them unprepared to achieve excellence and leadership in their chosen field, we have not created a more socially just world, no matter how committed to action we may be. Equity starts with achievement.

Further, as one of the best school leaders I know observed,⁹ if our students do not bring knowledge and analytical skills *to the discussion of social justice itself*, we risk giving rise to lethal mutations—poorly thought-through best intentions that are more harm than good. In 2021, educators in Oregon received an official document advising them that asking students to show their work on math problems was a form of “white supremacy.” A friend shared an online discussion in which educators argued that homework and grading were “colonialist constructs.” It's hard to tell how many people believe specious arguments that striving to reach the highest levels of achievement, accomplishment, and excellence is somehow antithetical to people of color or tantamount to “embracing Whiteness.” It's alarming to even have to wonder. This book is written in the belief that such propositions are not just wrong but destructive and that academic achievement is the enabling engine of equity and social justice.

One of the most memorable texts I've read in the past year or so is Damon Tweedy's *Black Man in a White Coat*, a memoir of the author's experiences during his medical education and as a practicing doctor. If nothing else, the COVID crisis has proven that, as with almost every other benefit of our society, quality medical care is unevenly distributed. To anyone who had read Tweedy's book this could not have been a surprise. If we aspire to a just, equitable, and fair society it will require an abundance of doctors of every background but, doubly so, doctors from communities of color and others who are poorly served by the medical field. Social justice likewise relies in the long