their questions. What's worse, hearing your teacher plead for someone to participate slows the pacing—students' perception of passing time—to a crawl. It would have been a lot simpler, a lot faster, and a lot less painful for everyone for Mr. K to say, “OK, let's take a look at the second problem. How'd you answer that one, Mamadou?”

One of the best ways to engage students in learning is to make it feel dynamic and worthwhile, to give it flow. This makes it feel like something important and engaging. Pleading for hands is the anti-flow. It announces that the train has come to a halt and is stuck on the tracks. It causes students to lose faith in a teacher's competence (“See, nobody even participates in Mr. K's class; he's so boring”) and in the value of the classroom. *Cold Call* is one of the best ways to control the pace of class, keeping things moving when you want (like Na’Jee Carter, who uses his *Cold Call* to keep things moving), or to slow things down a bit like Denarius Frazier, who uses it to disincentivize eager hand-raising that might put pressure on him and students to go faster.

## Two Common but Important Misconceptions

There are two common misconceptions about *Cold Call* that warrant discussion. In both cases they involve confusing *Cold Call* with a different technique.

The first misconception involves random generators—names of students written on popsicle sticks and drawn from a can or a computer app to select students at random to participate. Using such random generators is common and participants at workshops often suggest it as the best way to *Cold Call*. Random generators can be quite useful at times, but I want to explain why they are not to me an example of *Cold Calling*. Again, they're fine to use