# Frontloading

In a recent blog, London-based science teacher Adam Boxer shared an idea he called “frontloading” to get the most out of *Means of Participation*. His reflection started with the observation that even if you diligently communicate the desired *Means of Participation*, some students still may not hear it if it comes at the end of your directions. He gives this example:

*“What is the word equation for photosynthesis?  
Please write your answer on your mini-whiteboard  
and hold it face down until I ask you to show me.”*

“On the face of it, this is a good instruction. The question is clear and clear and the MOP is established in terms of how the students will write and present their answer,” Boxer writes, but he adds that you may still end up with students raising their boards before you have asked them. “The second you ask them the question, they start writing down their answer (or at least thinking about it) and they are no longer listening to you. It's not that they are being defiant or messing around, they just didn't take in the instruction. And again, it's not because the instruction isn't clear … it's a property of its placement.” He suggests frontloading—placing the *Means of Participation* at the beginning of the direction so that students hear it first and process it before they start thinking about the question.

*“OK, in a second I'm going to ask a question. Please write your answer on your mini-whiteboard and hold it face down until I ask you to show me. What is the word equation for photosynthesis?”*

If routines aren't firmly established, he suggests using a script more like this to build reliable follow-through: