always helps. So breaking the task apart into more specific steps is, in a sense, teaching students the component steps of organization.

You can get a sense for how clear and specific directions help students succeed and engage productively in the work of class in the video *Denarius Frazier: Check in with Your Neighbor*. The incipient sense of flow, the way Denarius is building a sense of uninterrupted focus and momentum, derives from his simple clear directions coming out of the *Do Now*—“Pencils down and track me”—and to start the *Turn and Talk*: “Go ahead and check in with your neighbor. You have thirty seconds. Go.” Crisp and clear and all but impossible to misinterpret. Or watch the moment at the beginning of the video *Gabby Woolf: Keystone*. “We're going to be reading the beginning of [Chapter Four](#),” Gabby notes and students look placidly back at her. Then she adds a clear and specific direction: “Have your text in front of you, please.” Notice how many students suddenly swing into action and get their books. Notice how many students didn't think to have their books ready and how much unproductive learning time has been avoided by the simple clarity of that small phrase inserted at the outset of the activity.

**Concrete Directions.** Effective directions involve, when possible, clear, actionable tasks that students know how to execute. It's not just that the direction about neat and organized work breaks it into clear and manageable steps but that the steps are concrete enough to be hard to misinterpret. They refer to things like lining up decimals rather than “carefully presented work.” The former is much more concrete and ideally, I'd have taught students to line up decimals, so they knew exactly what I meant and were likely to be successful. Same for my direction to Cheryl, who, let's assume, is missing out on a *Turn and Talk* and is distracted or perhaps turned around and trying to get the