where a teacher might ask for verbal answers: “What strategies did you use to make ten?” In that case a few students might answer, describing gamely but perhaps imprecisely, what they did. In Tamesha's classroom everyone answers and describes their thinking with the precise word choice and syntax that writing demands. You can't flex the written word like the spoken one. To write is to think harder. Both ratios have been multiplied.

“Go ahead, take one minute,” Jamila Hammet tells the students at her table; they grab their pencils and are off. The writing is of shorter duration than Hasan's. They're reading *Because of Winn-Dixie* and the question is about how they feel when looking at a picture of a dog. The lesson is about the nature of the bonds between animals and humans. She wants to insert a short period of personal reflection to help students understand the characters in the novel better. As they write, they are focused, intent, and quite happy to be putting their thoughts down on paper. Because the routine is so solid, Jamila can insert small bursts of writing like this at almost any point in her lesson to increase the quality of student reflection, the amount of participation, or to give students a moment to shift gears and respond thoughtfully.

You can see a version of this system, slightly modified for older students, in Sadie McCleary’s Chemistry class. Her students answer three questions over six minutes. Efficient, focused, and effective, every student is on task and doing the core work of chemistry independently and in writing.

The goal of *Silent Solo*, as these teachers show, is a shared habit: one in which all students engage and some perhaps look forward to. There are clues in the montage as to how the habit was built and is maintained: