that we are often more distracted than we ideally would be, but that we are increasingly less able to sustain focus. Our brains increasingly expect distractions to “pop up,” and become agitated and distracted by the deferral of this gratification. As productivity expert Maura Thomas put it in a recent article,¹⁶ “Our productivity suffers not just because we are distracted by outside interruptions, but also because our own brains … become a source of distraction in and of themselves.”

“Skimming is the new normal” writes Maryanne Wolf in *Reader Come Home*, one of the most profound and important books on learning in recent years. She describes how constant exposure to technology not only distracts us in the moment but rewires our brains to be less attentive, less capable of attention, and less able to sustain reflective states required in particular for deep and meaningful reading. Perhaps you notice this in yourself: Suddenly in the last few years you’ve found your eye rapidly skimming down the page while you read, inching ahead to look for … something. This is your brain, having been wired for distraction by a digital environment in which your average sustained attention to any task is under two minutes, looking for something new and flashing. In other words, this is you not only failing to pay attention, but losing the capacity to do so. You notice it because you once lived a low-tech life and feel the absence of the focus you used to have. Your students did not and do not. For most this is the only reality they have ever known.

This raises several questions for teachers. Do the environments they build in their classrooms socialize sustained attention or fractured and skittish attention? What can they do to help their students if they observe them, singularly or as a whole, to require stronger attention skills?