# TECHNIQUE 47: THRESHOLD AND STRONG START

People constantly read environments and take social cues from them, and this process starts within seconds of entering a space. Less than that, actually. We form many of our impressions and opinions almost instantaneously, Jonathan Haidt explains in *The Righteous Mind*, often creating logical explanations for our responses only later. Like so much of our behavior, this process is hidden from us—we are not aware that we do it, but we do it just the same. The “we” in this statement includes your students.

Their first impressions matter, not just on the first day of school, but every day, and so how class begins—and in fact how culture and expectations are communicated in the ambiguous and liminal time *before* class has begun—is critical in setting norms, communicating culture. How you choose to greet students when they cross the threshold of your doorway communicates to students what is likely to happen when they enter your classroom, and what people expect to happen is much more likely to come about. With culture, getting it right and keeping it right are much easier than fixing it once it goes wrong. *Threshold* ensures that you make a habit of getting it right at the start of each day.

Students' arrival in the classroom should result in their receiving the message that they belong; that their teacher is prepared and capable; and that as learners their time will be well spent. It's also important to offer a subtle reminder that expectations in your classroom are elevated over what they are in the hallway or any other space. What happens in your classroom is more important, and a subtle shift should happen when students enter, not unlike what the great majority of people do upon entering a church,