tough, Alf?” she asks. Alf, eager to demonstrate his comprehension but perhaps not as focused on the precision of his answer as he might be, offers: “What made life in the workhouse so tough was the jobs, and that many people had … they were too young, too old, too ill to work, and also many people had to work.” Though his answer isn’t wrong, it’s imprecise and unclear. He has included several ideas, commingled, and Jennie can’t be sure if he knows clearly. “You gave me three or four answers there in one,” she responds with emotional constancy. “Just give me your first answer again, please.” Given the chance to revise his answer, Alf shows a more precise understanding of the text. “What made life so tough in the workhouses was that … . some jobs were very physically demanding,” Jennie seizes this moment not only to appreciate Alf’s answer, but to show him (and the rest of the class) how his increased precision improved the quality of his response. “In your first [answer] you gave me four bits of quite vague information. In that one, you perfected it with … the words you chose.” Jennie has both given Alf a chance to shine and moved the class toward a more specific understanding of the text—and how to respond with clarity.

There are other reasons why students sometimes answer a question other than the one you asked. For example, they sometimes conflate different types of information about a topic. For example, you ask for a definition (“Who can tell me what a compound word is?”), and a student replies with an example (“Eyeball is a compound word!”); or you ask for the description of a concept (“When we refer to the area of a figure, what are we talking about? Who can tell me what area is?”), and a student replies with a formula to solve for it (“Length times width”). In the thick of the action, it’s easy to miss that these are right answers to the wrong question. And as you begin to listen for them, you’ll find that these kinds of exchanges are far more common than