While *Strong Voice* is a critical technique for teachers to master, it is also one that is easily misunderstood, so I begin with some important notes on the purpose and even the name of the technique, which, to be honest, I almost changed for this version of the book, in part because “strong voice” has always been a bit of a misnomer. It is a technique as much about body language as about voice, for example. More importantly, the strength implied is in most cases about steadiness and self-control, about maintaining poise and composure, especially under duress.

Social science research tells us that emotions broadcast to others are contagious. When we're conversing, we're not merely exchanging ideas, we're often shaping the listener's mindset and emotions. Researchers have found that emotions can spread between individuals even when their contact with each other is *entirely nonverbal*. In one study, three strangers were observed facing one another in silence. Researchers found that an emotionally expressive person transmitted his or her mood to the other two without uttering a word.^16 What we do with our voice, words, and body language can cause others to shift into modes of communication more like our own and this phenomenon has a name, “mirroring,” which refers to the way in which we unconsciously synchronize our emotional state to match that of another person's during an interaction. One implication for teachers is that if we can keep our composure, or even noticeably recompose ourselves as things get tense, others are likely to follow. And of course if we lose our composure others are more likely to as well.

Young people's emotions are real and often intense; our job as teachers is not to tell them not to feel them. However, part of our job *is* to help them manage emotions, keep control, and match their response to the setting. I am sure there are people who will see this as “controlling,” but I