answer.” Or simply calling on Guadeloupe by saying “Track Guadeloupe, please.” But there can be challenges with these acronyms. First, they focus on the action without always fully describing its purpose and a good thing can easily become distorted when the purpose isn't clear. The component parts of SLANT, for example, are easy to manage and so teachers—perhaps a struggling teacher for whom an orderly classroom has been elusive—can lock in on the behavior without pursuing its purpose.

An additional challenge can be that managing attention behaviors can prove successful enough that it can lead to a spread in managing behaviors less clearly tied to attention: hands folded on the desk; back flat against the chair, and so forth. To be clear, these behaviors are not something I've discussed in *Teach Like a Champion*, but I have certainly seen classrooms where they are reinforced in a counterproductive way and sometimes in the belief that this book endorses them. Reminding students who are at risk of becoming distracted—or who are sending unsupportive messages to peers—to Track or SLANT can be useful; telling students to keep their feet flat on the floor or interrupting them when they are productively engaged in a discussion to tell them to fold their hands on the desk is not.12 What if they want to take notes?

*Habits of Attention* also implies asking students to track us as teachers at times. There are people who will tell you this, too, is a form of tyranny, but telling children they needn't pay attention to adults is a cheap version of freedom to trade an education for. “When parents asked me why their students should have to track me when I spoke, I explained, ‘If I can't see your son's eyes I don't know if he heard. I don't know if he will be able to complete the learning task,’ my colleague Darryl Williams says of his school leadership days. “I explained it from an equity perspective. One of the reasons we get students’ attention