discuss how they got the answer *they* gave—and therefore think is right—but an answer that he chose.

We often begin reviewing a problem by revealing the right answer and then, suspense alleviated, talking about it. However, as soon as students know the right answer, the nature of their engagement tends to change. They shift to thinking about whether they got it right and how well they did. No matter how much they love the math for the math's sake (or history or science or literature for its sake), part of them is thinking “Yes! I got it,” or “Darn, I knew that,” or “Darn, why do I keep messing up?” If Jason had said, “The answer here is B, but I want to look at D,” some students would almost assuredly have thought, “Cool, I knew that,” *and then stopped listening as closely because in their minds they had gotten it right and didn't need to listen.*

One of the simplest and easiest things you can do to begin building a *Culture of Error* is to delay revealing whether an answer is right or wrong until after you've discussed it, and perhaps an alternative.

You can see Katie Bellucci do this in the video *Katie Bellucci: Different Answers*. She begins by asking students to use hand signals (see *technique 10*, *Show Me*) to reveal their answers to a multiple-choice question. “We have some different answers out here,” she says, “I see some twos, threes, and fours. B, C, and D.” Her tone is cheery, indicating that disagreement—and therefore wrong answers—is not a bad thing. It only proves the discussion will be interesting. But notice what she does next. As she begins reworking the problem with the help of her students, she does not tell them which of those answer choices was correct.

By *withholding the answer* until after she's discussed the question fully, Katie retains a bit of suspense, keeps students productively engaged, and avoids the distraction