pencil and paper. Their insights will be scattered on the wind. And as they write, some part of them will be thinking about mundane aspects of task completion—Am I writing enough? Are other people writing more?—because responding in writing is not yet a habit. Ironically, in an effort to make it “interesting,” Ms. Yecarb focuses more attention on the task of writing and less on the book itself.

In Jessica's class, however, the ideas are flowing right away because there is both habit and procedure. There's a journal in everyone's folder; the folder is on everyone's desk, and pencils are in the trays. They have done this, her narrative reveals, eighty-seven times already, and so it is the equivalent to them of brushing their teeth. They can do it not just quickly but with their minds on bigger things—the book, in this case. Jessica's students are likely to think more deeply and creatively specifically because she's made the logistics of responding in writing a habit. You can see the benefits of this in the rest of the video. What you do out of habit takes less willpower—so every student is writing the whole time. What you do out of habit allows your working memory to be on things of substance—so students have engaged Jessica's questions in thoughtful and reflective ways. No surprise then that when she prompts them, every child's hand goes up eagerly. She has built a setting in which it is easy for their minds to engage and they have responded.

Habits, Charles Duhigg tells us in *The Power of Habit*, are the brain's way of saving energy, or allocating its energy to other more pressing things and they are just as important for teachers as they are for students. According to a study by social psychologist Wendy Wood and colleagues at Duke University, up to 45 percent of our daily behaviors are automatic.11 These make it easier to operate—thinking is hard work and the brain is always trying to conserve energy and focus for when it really needs it. You can't plan