cognitive processes—the very ones that teachers target—operate. https://www.aft.org/periodical/american-educator/spring-2006/how-knowledge-helps.

6. “What you know determines what you see,” write Karl Hendrick and Paul Kirschner; it is the knowledge you have deeply encoded in long-term memory and can access simply and easily in the blink of an eye that allows you to see more—literally and figuratively.

7. For this reason I don’t personally use the term “aggressive monitoring” as it can unintentionally reinforce this transactional feel in application. “Active Observation” is a bit more neutral to me but if you prefer “aggressive monitoring” that’s fine. It’s a common term and there’s an argument for using *lingua franca*.

8. She also does a nice job of double-checking on Juliana by asking her to rework the original problem while others start in on a new problem. This is a demonstration of the effort Dani has put into building a *Culture of Error* that results in students feeling psychological safety. See technique 12 for more on how teachers like Dani do this.

9. The idea that both Hilary and Jessica use a ticket metaphor for their *Affirmative Checking* is coincidental and actually fairly atypical.

10. *New Yorker*, April 8, 2013, https://www.newyorker.com/magazine/2013/04/08/every-good-boy-does-fine.

11. You can see examples of this in two clips from Jon Bogard’s classroom from this chapter. Note the snaps of support “India” gets in the video *Jon Bogard: Back to Your Notes* from the technique *Own and Track* and in the support various students get in the clip *Jon Bogard: Go to IP*.