shouted out—again—to desist from shouting out) and down when others are talking (see *technique 29*, *All Hands*).

So build your classroom around procedures that become habits. Education writer Tom Bennett describes the shared habits that become a routine in a good classroom as being like a “superpower.” Habits, he writes, become part of students: “They behave the way they need to behave, without thinking. And that means … time and head space to think about the things you want them to think about—the learning. Routines are the foundation of good behaviour. They take time to communicate and imbed. But nothing is worth your time more.” Tom's right, of course. And what he says of positive behavior is even more true of thinking behaviors and academic habits. Ironically this often makes students happy because they take comfort—and sometimes pride—in knowing how to do things quickly and well. But either way, you will be transferring the focus of their working memory from how to do a task to the significance of the question. So a classroom infused with strong habits is usually a happy and scholarly place too.

There's a third, more subtle aspect of habit building that's worth thinking about, and a story from my visit to London's Michaela Community School, which serves students from some of the poorest sections of London, will help to explain why. At Michaela—which was recently the top-scoring school in England on at least one math exam—students at the school stand up at lunch each day and give thanks. I saw this myself on a visit in 2016.

After eating, the pupils were offered the chance to stand and express gratitude in front of half the school. Their hands shot into the air. All of them. Everyone wanted to be chosen to say thanks.

Students thanked their classmates for helping them study. They thanked their teachers for expecting a lot and helping