essentially a histogram of mistakes that he's generated as he walks. By the time he's halfway around the room much of his working memory is focused on how he'll reteach the example. And he is able to draw an excellent example from a student for a *Show Call* because, like Julia, this is something he's made note of.

Discussing this video afterwards, Denarius noted that his seating plan is also critical to his success. The two front corners of the room are the places he always starts his observational rounds. He sets his seating plan so the first four students he observes in each of those corners present what is often a statistical sample of the room—a mix that includes at least one student who often struggles, one student who's often typical of the group, and one who is often a high performer.

> “After looking at four kids' work I often have a decent hypothesis for how the room overall is doing. I'm testing that hypothesis already as I work the first column, and by the second column I'm deciding what to do about it.”

> “A lot of people think I'm tracking who got it right and who got it wrong but I track the nature of the errors I see. When I finish my observations, knowing what they misunderstand rather than what number of kids got it right is much more useful. And that, too, helps me develop my plan to reteach as I work.”

As I'm sure you're recognizing, the design of the tool you use to track and analyze data in real time is critical. The following illustration shows some examples.