within ten seconds. Let's get to it, mate.” His tone is calm and steady. His directions are clear. He whispers to preserve privacy and he's quick. You could be sitting two seats away and miss the whole thing.

**Balance with Private Individual Precise Praise (PIPP)**  
We call a *private individual correction* a PIC for short, and its partner is the PIPP, or *private individual precise praise*. When you use PIPP, you walk over to a student, just as you would when you make a PIC, but whisper positive feedback instead of criticism. If students come to expect that a private intervention could be either positive or corrective, they will be more open to you as you approach them. You also earn trust for your criticism by balancing it with praise. Most of all, you build a defense against the sort of eavesdropping that students do when they are curious about or take delight in the misfortune of others. In other words, if the content is unpredictable—sometimes positive, sometimes corrective or constructive—the urgent need to listen for the juicy bits of discipline disappears. Frankly, the idea that you might approach Roberta and say, “I thought that answer was outstanding. Keep up the good work” is not terribly intriguing to eavesdroppers. Such positive comments can help to protect the privacy of the student when you need to tell Roberta to sit up.

**Intervention 5: Lightning-Quick Public Correction**  
It would be great if you could make every correction quick and private, but we all know that in a complex place like a classroom it just doesn't work like that. You will be forced, at times, to make corrections or give reminders to individual students during public moments. In those cases, your goals should be to limit the amount of time a student is “onstage” for something negative, to focus on telling the student what to do right rather than what he or she did wrong,