passion, enthusiasm, humor, and the like—not necessarily as the antidote to work but because those are some of the primary ways that work gets done—and just possibly because work, done right, can evoke joy. The classroom can and should be a joyful place and a few points of emphasis and understanding can help bring that to the fore in a sustainable and productive way. This is beneficial to achievement as well. A place where students (and teachers) feel satisfaction, gratification, and happiness is also likely to be a place where they work hard and persist, learn more, and are just possibly more creative. A bit of *Joy Factor* can help make yours not just a happy classroom but a high-achieving one.

Joy is complex, though—it can take a surprisingly wide array of forms. It can (but need not) involve singing or dancing, but it can just as easily be quiet: the pleasure of doing a challenging problem well, or as a team, or of seeing your work praised by your classmates. It is experienced by individuals and in small or large groups—for the most part, it is enhanced by sharing in some ways with others, which makes it ideal for classrooms. In *The Happiness Advantage*, Shawn Achor discusses research on three component elements of happiness: pleasure, engagement, and meaning. We are happy when we find pleasure, but happiness goes well beyond that. We are happy when we are connected and when we perceive ourselves to be doing something important. “People who pursue only pleasure experience only part of the benefits happiness can bring while those who pursue all three routes lead the fullest lives,” Achor continues. Pleasure, engagement, and meaning: all three should be the foci of our efforts to make our classrooms joyful places.

Let me start by drawing a small distinction between joy and fun.⁴ I don't draw this distinction to rule out fun in the classroom. Fun is part of joy. But joy is broader than fun.