latter conversation doesn't happen until James has first done what his teacher asked. That's why the name for this principle is *Time and Place*. Sometimes the things students would rather discuss are frivolous. Sometimes they are legitimate. But the time and place for them is rarely when you have just asked them to do something else or when you are trying to attend to the needs of thirty classmates.

Either way, *Time and Place* is the skill of not engaging a new topic until you have achieved resolution on the one you've suggested.

One of my favorite examples of *Time and Place* is this example from Christy Lundy's classroom. Note the light circle. There's some drama afoot (sorry for the pun) and Christy can't see it! She calls on Patience, whose goal in answering, it soon turns out, has more to do with the kicking battle than anything having to do with *The Mouse and the Motorcycle*. “He's kicking me!” she states. An argument ensues.

We've all been there and we all know where this sort of situation can go. It's not bringing us back to the Beverly Cleary novel any time soon. Yes, Christy's students feel the situation keenly. The emotions are real. And also, yes, it is a distraction—the kind of thing that waylays a lesson and the kind of thing students who would rather not read can learn: *If I can create some drama right now, I will not have to do the work.* You will meet this student at least once in your career. She deserves a teacher who will ensure that she does the work. It's not the time and place, in other words.

“Three ... two ... one,” says Christy, the brief short countdown giving Patience a bit of time to compose herself. Just a bit of space. She's has done two things here: She's reminded Patience that there is an appropriate time to discuss the issue. She doesn't dismiss Patience's complaint; she just needs her to understand that it will have to wait till