example, or formulating a hypothesis—*Stretch It* questions give students the opportunity to pursue their singular train of thought, supported by their teacher's authentic curiosity about their insights. *Stretch It* is an opportunity to demonstrate your interest in students' thinking (rather than simply accepting a student's response that aligns with your objective or exemplar) and thus create an academic culture in your class that values students' perspectives and thoughtful engagement with the content.

*Stretch It* can also help you solve one of the thorniest classroom challenges: differentiating instruction for students of different skill levels. Asking frequent, targeted, rigorous questions of students as they demonstrate mastery is a powerful and much simpler tool for differentiating than breaking students into different instructional groups. By tailoring questions to individual students, you can meet them where they are and push them in a way that's directly responsive to what they've shown they can already do.

## Varying Your Questions

In the next section, I describe six different categories of *Stretch It* questions. My purpose in doing so is to help teachers provide a rich and diverse range of ways to extend student thinking. Although there's value in categories, it's also important not to get too hung up on them. The categories are merely tools to help you think about how to bring variety to the important task of challenging students in the moment of success.

## Ask How or Why

The best test of whether students' answers are reliable—of whether they can get questions right consistently on a given topic—is whether they can explain how they arrived at the answer. Asking a student “why” can push them to