or “A lot of people make that mistake because it seems so logical, but let's take look at why it's wrong.”

You can see another example of this in the *Culture of Error Montage*. Mathew Gray, like Denarius, is sharing a mistake —this one made by a student named Elias (a Show Call, technique 13). He notes this right away: “Elias has made a mistake,” but he notes that this is not a surprise because he made the question difficult and that others have made the mistake as well. Then crucially he adds, “It's a mistake that I made when I first read the poem.” He is the teacher and he, too, has struggled to understand. What could more fully contradict the idea that being an expert somehow means that one does not make mistakes? The idea is not to forestall defensiveness by making students believe they are correct, in other words, but to forestall defensiveness by helping students to see that the experience of making a mistake is normal and valuable.

Here are some other phrases that do that:

- “I'm glad I saw that mistake. It teaches us something we have to fix before we've mastered this.”
- “I like that your first instinct was to use geometry, but in this situation, we have to solve algebraically.”
- “Yes, the writing here makes it very challenging to follow who is saying what. But that phrase is spoken by Mary and not by John. Let's take a look at how we know that.”
- “What I am asking you to do is difficult. Even working scientists struggle with it. But I know we'll get it, so let's take a look at what went wrong here... .”

It's worth noting that the statements are different. The first flips student expectation; the teacher is glad to have seen the mistake. The second gives credit to the student's