sideways”) don't help much. You want to see their actual answer. “Hold up one finger if you chose answer A, two if you chose answer B,” and so forth is a better approach.

## In unison:

In most cases asking students to share their answers visually works best when it happens in unison, for efficiency reasons and to preserve the integrity of the data. Imagine you're a student. You choose answer B, but for whatever reasons don't share your answer right away when the teacher asks the class to hold up their answer. Glancing around the room, you see eighteen classmates showing they chose answer C. If you reveal that you answered B, you will likely be the only one. Will you change your answer? Studies have repeatedly shown that people are deeply swayed by the answers of their peers. In a classic study by Solomon Asch, for example, experimental subjects were placed in a group of “participants,” who were in fact confederates of the experimenters. The group was asked to compare the lengths of a series of lines that were clearly of different lengths. Without confederates present, subjects reported the length of the lines incorrectly less than 1 percent of the time, but in a setting where confederates consistently reported believing the lines were the same length, most people made efforts to conform, giving an answer they knew to be wrong at least some of the time. A third of participants changed any given answer on average and 75 percent of participants changed an answer at least once over twelve trials. Conclusion: Most people will change their answers to something they don't believe is right in order to conform. If everyone presents their data point simultaneously and on cue, it prevents students from changing their answer based on their peers’ responses. Ensuring that answers are given in unison also maximizes pacing and flow. Show Me can often feel energetic and game-like to students, and their crisp and coordinated participation facilitates the sense of momentum it creates.