create the optimal conditions for achievement. They deserve schools that encourage and push them to engage in behaviors that foster their own learning and the learning of those around them. And they deserve something that the author and literacy expert Alfred Tatum calls “disciplinary equity.”

“There are dozens of disciplines taught at the university level in which it feels like there is a Black eraser,” Tatum wrote recently. It's imperative that “all disciplines belong to all groups,”⁶ he noted, but the feeling of erasure exists (in engineering and computer science and biochemistry, for example) because we do not sufficiently “provide the foundation in elementary, middle and high schools.”

Providing that foundation requires strength of academics and strength of culture—a bright mirror in every classroom that reflects students and draws them into the light.

The moment when Christine's student turned hesitantly to face to the room—unsure that he could do it—and saw not only encouragement and support in his classmates’ eyes, but also a social norm reflected, one that said: *we participate with enthusiasm Ms. Torres’ room; we are unabashedly intellectual*, and so found that he could do it— that was a moment of social justice.

When culture is *not* strong like that, when it does not foster positive and productive engagement as the norm, teachers make compromises. A lesson plan's primary attribute must then be its capacity to win students’ attention with something catchy because they are not expected and socialized to pay attention. The question *How rigorous can I make this lesson?* is off the table.

This trade-off is by no means limited to certain schools. As you read this, there are tens of thousands of students across almost every strata of American society sitting in classrooms in various states of compromise, where a quiet