Jessica follows up again: “And what does that reveal about Toni as a friend?” This time however, Gavin gets stuck. He freezes and can't answer. To some degree this is inevitable … if we follow up good answers with further questions—be they *Stretch It* or *Right Is Right*—we are at some point going to get to the limits of what a student can answer at the moment. What then? How do we get the most out of them and foster success?

Jessica's response is simple and elegant. She uses a roll-back, simply repeating Gavin's words back to him: “So, Gavin, what you said is that Toni is sneaky and that she's a tricky person and that she's doing this because she is trying to get to the truth about who stole Angel's bracelet. Why is that important and what does that reveal about Toni as a friend?”

From there Gavin picks it up easily and closes out his analysis: this reveals that Toni is a helpful and good friend. She's trying to exonerate Mattie. He even uses the word “meticulous.”

It's a great moment. Instead of being “stuck” and not only possibly feeling like he'd failed, Gavin persists and does another layer of analysis. He closes it out with success, doing the cognitive work himself.

# A Couple of Finer Points

Notice Jessica's affect, which is neutral and emotionally constant as she re-asks the question. She's not annoyed with Gavin. There's no negativity in the roll-back but there's also no sticky-sweet to it, either. She knows he can get it. So she is steady at the helm.

She also avoids “tipping” (see *technique 32*, *Phrasing Fundamentals*). That is, she's careful not to give too much