example is probably the most important activity type, if not in its own right then because of its importance in making the others function well. The cognitive science on this is clear: the other activities, which we often think of, sometimes accurately, sometimes not, as more analytical and “higher order,” are more productive when students have strong background knowledge to support them. Pause now, for example, and reflect for two and a half minutes on the decisions of Napoleon and Lee to attack at Waterloo and Gettysburg respectively. Were they wise? Did the decisions reflect the dominance of personality over tactics?

That’s a higher-order thinking activity if you know a lot about the requisite topics, but if you don’t know enough about military history, there’s not much higher order in your thinking. In fact, there’s not much thinking. Let me quote Daniel Willingham again here: “Thinking well requires knowing facts, and that’s true not simply because you need something to think about. The very processes that teachers care about most—critical thinking processes such as reasoning and problem-solving—are intimately intertwined with factual knowledge that is in long-term memory (not just found in the environment).”

And here’s the National Research Council on the topic: “Over a century of research on transfer has yielded little evidence that teaching can develop general cognitive competencies that are transferable to any new discipline, problem or context.”⁴ Cognition is not a transferable skill and is always context specific and knowledge dependent. Guided practice, discussion, and reflection are all ways to help students think deeply and in higher-order ways, but only if they are preceded by a strong investment in knowledge, directly taught.

In his research Barak Rosenshine provides an excellent description of this. “In a study of mathematics instruction,