reinforce sound decision making—to respond to situations in which mistakes are made so that students learn from them. Their goal should be to develop and teach, and this goal can and should be evident in how you employ consequences. The following sections describe a few principles of effective consequences.

## Incremental

It isn't the size of a consequence that changes student behavior but the consistency of it. Designing consequences so that they can be allocated in smaller increments lets students learn from mistakes at manageable cost. “Small mistake, small consequence” works really well for students, and it's better for you as well. If your consequences are heartbreaking for the students you love, you will hesitate and probably not use them. Plan out a system of consequences that starts small and scales up gradually in severity. The first response should be a disincentive, not a life-altering event.

We've all seen an elementary school student become bereft over a color change. This is one reason why in many classrooms I have seen a color change chart that shows everyone on green while the teacher is near tears with frustration. The system isn't incremental, so it doesn't get used. One simple change is to subdivide a color change (green to yellow or yellow to red) into a series of three checks. If a student is calling out and you've asked him to stop but the action persists, he is telling you he needs a clearer reminder, but a check is far more useful than a color change. “That’s a check for you, Donald,” you might whisper, “Please work harder not to call out when it's someone else's turn.”

Another benefit of small, scaled consequences is that they enable you to respond consistently, but still offer students a