Recently I ran into a principal I know and I asked him about his students and how they are changing. “Attention spans are shorter and shorter,” he noted. “Especially because most students don’t read outside of school anymore, unless they have parents who make them. But we’re doing our best to adapt our instruction.” It was a short conversation and I never found out whether he meant We are adapting instruction to respond to the reduced attention of students by giving young people learning tasks that require less sustained focus or We are adapting our instruction to try to intentionally socialize concentration and improve student attention spans by engaging in sustained periods of a working on a single task. Were they acceding to the change or fighting back, in other words? This is a critical question. The latter can—and just possibly must—be accomplished. If you look at the videos referenced in this book, I believe you will see plenty of joy and energy and fast-paced learning, but you will reliably see in almost every high-achieving classroom students who can sustain focus on a single task, often quietly, deliberately, and independently. This is in part because their teachers have prioritized it and have built it up over time until it was a habit.

You will also see in the videos environments where constant disruptions to work, to thinking, and to reflection are rare. This is because teachers know that students deserve as much.

Even if the ability to focus varies widely among students and they walk through our doors with different levels of it, we can still seek to develop the ability to focus and pay attention as much as possible. Accomplishing this has always been one of the most important outcomes of schooling—even if this fact is not always recognized or acknowledged. Schools are increasingly one of the last places that can aspire to insulate young people from