from long-term into working memory but also connecting it and expanding upon it. It's long-term knowledge formation.

“Tell me more,” Michael says turning to yet another student. The *Cold Call* here seems part of the fun. The message to students is *We're being pushed to the limits*. Treated like working scientists; everybody's in the game of imagining ourselves in that setting.

“Atomic theory says that everything's made up of matter and the atoms in it,” the next student answers as the video closes—a small scene from a classroom marked by constant questions. No answer taken for granted. Always searching for why. Being in this classroom is like being a real scientist, in other words, and it just may be the kind of place that makes young people decide to pursue further studies in science.

When you give students ways to apply their knowledge in new settings, think on their feet, and tackle harder questions, they usually like it, at times quite a lot. This kind of questioning keeps them engaged and sends the message that we, their teachers, believe deeply their intellectual capability. *Stretch It* shows young people what they can do. You can almost see that in Melanie's response. She wonders for a moment, braces herself —she's beyond her comfort zone—but then she carries on and finds that she is up to the task. To find you can, over and over in the face of challenge, is to come to believe in yourself.

It's not just that students learn more in classrooms like Michael's and Arielle's; it's that, if you asked them, these would be those classrooms where they felt important as learners, valued and respected as students, most capable as thinkers. They're the places where young people rise to the challenge and start to think: *Yeah, I'm a math kid*, or *Yeah, science is my thing*. Many times, by challenging students, we tell them more about what we think they are