"OK, let's just check a few of the key ideas. If I was looking at a photograph of some cells and they were rounded and spaced randomly, would I be looking at plant or animal cells? Jasmine?"

"Good, and if I were looking at plant cells, what would cause them to have a more rectangular pattern? Louis?"

"Great. So which types of cells have a membrane, Kelsey, plant cells, animal cells, or both?"

"Good. Finally, Shawn, what are lysosomes and which kinds of cells would I find them in?"

1. First, you'll notice that our science teacher's questions are now objective. They don't ask whether students *think* they know, they ask them to *demonstrate* if they do, so the accuracy of the data is now far better.

2. Second, these are not yes/no questions. This makes it harder to guess the right answer or to get it right with only the most basic understanding.

One common solution to the problem of apparent assent is worth being wary of. Many teachers try to replace the yes/no question with a signal from students: *Thumbs up if you understand the differences between plant and animal cell structure, thumbs down if you don't, thumbs sideways if you're not sure.* This may seem like an improvement—you're likely to get more responses from students—but the problems of self-report remain—you're still relying on students' perception of whether they know something and the fact is, even if they're totally honest, many are probably still wrong on that account. Putting your thumb up or down may make the self-report more engaging and thus remove some of the awkward silence but in terms of giving you better data on your students' understanding, it's mostly an illusion. Targeted questions are far better.