students to use frames like this to weave their comments together with those around them results in more cohesive discussions. It is usually accomplished through the use of sentence starters—short phrases that teachers socialize students to use and adapt, that facilitate building off someone else's idea.

Many teachers start by posting sentence starters like these on their wall and spending a few days asking students to practice using basic ones, saying things like, “Great; can you use a sentence starter to frame that response and talk directly to Aleisha?” or “Today I'm just going to listen for how well you use our sentence starters to build off one another during our discussion.” Or, as BreOnna Tindall described, praising effective use of them, “Oh, you built on that idea so well. That was so good!” Over time, the list itself would become less critical as using the sentence starters and adaptations of them become a habit.

The simplest sentence starters are “I agree because …” or “I disagree because …” These are useful, especially, for getting students started in responding to one another and situating their comments within the larger conversation, but as many of the teachers I know have developed their use of sentence starters over time, they've pushed to get beyond “agree” or “disagree” pretty quickly. But sentence starters don't just reflect how students think during discussions; they shape it, too—in this case tending to socialize students to take sides, to focus on “winning” the discussion, to dig in their heels and try to prove their original comment was right. The best discussions are less about proving oneself right than they are about finding nuanced common ground. Agree/disagree is an acceptable starting point but students can and should think in more complex ways. So it’s important to introduce students to sentence starters that push them to find other ways of connecting their arguments' to others: