into a *Turn and Talk* to review the rules of particle motion. There's a *Cold Call* for Sterling. Then another *Turn and Talk*. J'Karah is *Cold Called* to review. Next, another *Turn and Talk* and a pre-call for Habib. For the follow-up—why isn't “average kinetic energy” incorrect?—she takes volunteers. Then another *Turn and Talk* followed by a bit of written practice. Back and forth she goes, changing the format or *Means of Participation* (technique 36). But the ways that *Cold Call* works particularly well in combination with other techniques deserve reflection. It is, for example, an ideal backstop to an activity like a *Turn and Talk*, which you might use to boost the ratio in your classroom, because *Cold Calling* afterwards increases accountability and therefore engagement in decentralized tasks where you can't monitor what everyone is doing. The *Turn and Talk*, on the other hand, provides a counterbalance to *Cold Call* as it takes the attentive focus developed via *Cold Call* and channels it into a peer-to-peer interaction that maximizes active engagement. So Sadie is especially likely to use *Cold Call* before or after a *Turn and Talk*.

*Cold Call* is similarly ideal for increasing student attentiveness and effort during an *Everybody Writes*. Giving students two minutes to write about how Jonas is changing in the chapter, for example, is a great activity, but it's even better if you *Cold Call* Ella coming out of it—“Ella, please share a bit of what you wrote about.” And it’s even better still if you *Circulate* slowly, reading students' thoughts as they write them and then *Cold Call* to validate and discuss one particular answer —“Ella, I was struck by your use of the phrase ‘rising tension.’ Can you tell us a bit about what you meant and where you see it?” A bit of loving accountability after independent work, accomplished through occasional *Cold Calling*, helps students get the most out of the independent task.