practices saying it, quickly and efficiently. Then, as they use the word, they're more confident and fluent in using it.

There are other reasons to use *Call and Response* here as well. Christine's class starts with a bang. The energy and enthusiasm are high. You might watch her and think, Well, if my kids were that enthusiastic, I'd teach like that too, but the converse is actually more true. Her students are enthusiastic because of her teaching moves. There is, for example, a connection between Christine's use of *Call and Response* and the fact that practically every hand in the room goes up when she asks for a volunteer to read the definition. For one thing, everyone has already participated. More broadly, people respond to norms and Christine has made the norm of participation visible and universal. The more consistent and visible norms are, the more they influence people. Everyone is involved and also sees everyone else around them positively engaged in the lesson. The natural thing to do, then, is to continue to match the norm of enthusiastic engagement that's been set. You're more likely now to raise your hand.

But there's even more going on in this moment of *Call and Response*, I'd argue. Humans have evolved to rely on what has led to our survival as a species. Those things have as much to do with our ability to coordinate and build mutual bonds as with anything we do as individuals. We survived by forming cohesive productive groups, and as a result we not only yearn to be a part of said groups, but also feel comfort and belonging when we are within one. “The brain is a social organ,” Zaretta Hammond writes in *Culturally Responsive Teaching and the Brain*. “It has a ‘contact’ urge, a ‘desire to be with other people.’” Every society on earth sings, for example, in part because singing is a way of becoming a part of the collective. We sing together and join our voices. The emotions of doing so are often surprisingly