correction as invisible as possible and, perhaps more important, they would make the correction *while still teaching*. They would put a premium on privacy. They might walk by while still teaching and put a gentle hand on Roberta's elbow but direct their gaze out toward the class (rather than down at Roberta) while they did this, to give Roberta as much privacy as possible to recover her attention. If Roberta was still slow to react, they might whisper to her in a tiny pause, “Make sure you’re sitting up please, Roberta.” If that didn't work, they might find a plausible moment to ask the class to engage in some other task such as a *Turn and Talk*—“Please take 30 seconds to review the definition of the Civilian Conservation Corps with your partner. Go!”—and then make a brief, low-key intervention: “Roberta, I can tell you're tired, but class is too important for me to allow you to sleep. Open to a clean sheet of paper. Your heading should say ‘Great Depression.’ I’ll be back to check on you in thirty seconds.”

They would be calm and steady. But most of all, they would be as fast as possible in order to keep the thread of instruction alive for the other twenty-nine students in the classroom. And therein lies the secret: if you can manage to correct noninvasively, you are likely to be able to set and reinforce expectations successfully and consistently.

**Six Interventions**

In watching great classroom managers, my team and I have made a list of six useful interventions, ranked in order of invasiveness from least to most. The goal, generally speaking, is to be as near to the top of this list as possible as often as possible.

**Intervention 1: Nonverbal Intervention**