Cam Jansen story they are reading, Cheyenne gives a strong answer that includes one of two possible reasons. At about 2:00 in the video Akilah says (with students chiming in): “Nice work, Cheyenne,” and praises her for having talked about both characters. She’s reinforced her effort. But then she adds, “There is something else we know about both characters that makes me think there’s another reason Cam is helping Eric.” There’s positive reinforcement for Cheyenne and also clarity about the fact that they’ve not yet arrived at a fully correct answer and Kimayah weighs in to add the critical detail.

Later Akilah asks Sonoa to explain why Eric asks Cam a question. Sonoa’s response is good, but afterwards, Akilah notes, “We’re missing something from Sonoa’s response. What are we missing?” she asks, and by not accepting an almost-right answer or not crowding out student thinking by rounding up herself, she allows Michael to do the work (and, as you’ll notice, be the hero).

A word about tone. Holding out for high standards does not imply being harsh or punitive—in fact, the opposite is true. As you read the responses to replace rounding up above, I hope you imagined a teacher smiling gently, nodding to encourage her students, and/or speaking in a supportive tone. “Personal warmth combined with active demandingness,” Zaretta Hammond writes in *Culturally Responsive Teaching and the Brain*, “earns the teacher the right to push for excellence and stretch the student beyond his comfort zone.” Students must feel that you believe in their ability to produce ideas of depth and quality, and when this is the case it yields a happy irony: Using *Right Is Right* demonstrates that you value the student as much as the answer. The goal isn’t simply to get the right answer spoken aloud (by someone), but to help each student push their answer to the level of precision and accuracy you