only *what* was (and wasn't) important to do in the classroom but *why*.

Great teaching “always begins with clear vision and a sound purpose,” Adeyemi Stembridge writes in *Culturally Responsive Education in the Classroom*. “The teacher who deeply understands this is often able to evoke brilliance from even the most mundane of strategies.” But if a clear purpose could make mundane strategies brilliant, a lack of clarity about purpose could also cause an effective strategy to fail. To know why is to be several steps closer to consistently knowing how.

I wanted to do more of that. If you knew that, as Willingham puts it, students remember what they think about, you could be intentional about using *Everybody Writes* and *Cold Call* to help ensure that everyone thought deeply about the lesson content; if you knew that students need to feel psychological safety in order to learn, you could be intentional about using *Habits of Attention* to wrap them in a culture that ensured constant messages of support from peers.

So version 3.0 began to take shape. I replaced the chapter on lesson planning with one on lesson preparation. The two things are not the same, of course. Preparation is what you do after the plan is written—by you or somebody else—to get ready to teach it. Time spent in schools was convincing me of its profound importance—and the frequency with which it is overlooked. The first technique in that chapter is *Exemplar Planning*—writing out the ideal answers you want students to give to important questions you'll ask during class.¹ That might seem like a superfluous task. You might think, *I already have a good sense for what students should say.* But writing it out helps clear your working memory and this has a very important effect, I now understood.