... less effective teachers gave much shorter presentations and explanations and then ... told students to solve problems. The less successful teachers were then observed going from student to student and having to explain the material again.”^5

Second, as I will discuss in a moment, switching among activity types is often necessary to effective instruction. Your lesson would probably be less successful if you chose one activity type for the *whole lesson* and more successful if you used two or three and asked yourself, for example: when is discussion ideal and for how long and what different activity after it will create the greatest synergy? You can sense that in Sadie's class—her lesson seamlessly incorporates Direct Instruction (via students' note-taking), discussion with *Turn and Talk* partners, and guided practice.

There's no formula, of course. You won't use the same approach every time. Each lesson will require something different; each teacher's style and approach will shape the progression. The goal is to create a feeling of flow, but in fact there are *feelings* of flow—some faster, some slower, some louder, some quieter.

With that in mind, here's a bit more about those six activity types.

**Activity 1: Direct Instruction/Knowledge Assimilation**

When students are presented with new information while they listen, read, or take notes, they are engaged in Direct Instruction/Knowledge Assimilation (KA). This could involve a class reading a text (silently or aloud, by teacher or students) or a teacher lecturing, modeling a problem, or sharing a presentation (with or without occasional questioning of students).