describe it in different ways, it becomes more powerful. So you might, in reviewing juxtaposition, deliberately ask for elaboration. “Asha, what's juxtaposition? Darius, what's an example from *Romeo and Juliet*? Katie, what's another? Roberto, what's another example of two characters who are juxtaposed from something else we've read? Good, and Kyra, in your own words, why might an author use juxtaposition?” The elaboration, causing students to explain and put into new words, to make connections, increases their knowledge of the concept and the likelihood that they will remember it when they need it.

The first half of the video *Christine Torres: Keystone* is a great example of other ways that *Retrieval Practice* can work. Christine is reviewing vocabulary words with students. Notice the richness of the questions Christine asks. *Retrieval Practice* questions don't have to be simple recall. Christine asks her students to apply the vocabulary words they're learning in different ways and new settings. That's important, because words work differently in different settings. To truly understand a word, you'd want students to constantly encounter it in all its nuanced shades of meaning. Christine asks students to know the definition, but also to apply the word in challenging and interesting ways. It's both simple and more elaborated retrieval. Christine makes sure that every student wrestles with almost every question. She uses *Turn and Talk* (see technique 43). For retrieval practice, we can't just take hands from volunteers or let a few highly verbal kids call out answers. We need to cause everyone to remember and apply the concept.

Interestingly, the period of delay between initial learning and retrieval is short in Christine's classroom. Forgetting, she knows, starts right away. With challenging and potentially confusing concepts, especially, it's not too soon to begin retrieving right away. So even though students