said yes at roughly the same rate as White teachers: 60 percent for Black teachers to 57 percent for White teachers. The issue, in other words, does not appear to be White teachers seeing harmless behavior among kids of color and reading danger and defiance where none exists, although, of course, we should always be aware that this is a risk. The data suggest that the issue is that almost every student assigned to a school not characterized by economic privilege is consigned to spend a significant portion of their learning years in classrooms where a lack of order makes it difficult for them to learn.

That is the norm.

Additionally, students themselves feel unsafe much of the time in school. A 2018 study by the United Negro College Fund reported that fewer than half of African American students (43 percent) feel safe at school.⁵ Think for a moment about the enormity of that finding—feeling unsafe is *normal*—it is how the average Black student feels in school, according to the survey. And those data are not disaggregated to show the disparate impact on Black students in high poverty schools, specifically.

Parents, not surprisingly, worry too. Another report by UNCF found that parents prioritized a safe, secure, and violence-free environment as the most important single factor when choosing a school for their child.⁶

Given that effective schools are the single most important vehicle in society for ensuring equality of and access to opportunity, these data represent a massive and regressive tax on families of poverty. But it is not just egregious behavior that is a problem. Low-level disruptions are chronic in many classrooms and result in not only lost learning time but disruption of student focus. A report by the UK Government in 2013–2014 found such behaviors as calling out without permission, talking unnecessarily while