Ending a digression quickly and politely just takes a little technique. I call it pressing pause because the word “pause” is so helpful, especially when followed by a statement pointing out what's useful about what's already been shared. “Pause there, Daniel. You've given us so much to talk about already. Let's let some other folks respond.” Boom. The rally is back on! The positivity is important. Some other variations might include: “Ooh. Pause there. You mentioned the memories he's started to receive and how emotional they are. Who else thought about that?” or even “Ooh. Pause. Interesting. Yes, the memories are so emotional; who can tell us why that matters?” You also might be able to redirect students to the most productive part of their answer: “Pause. That phrase, ‘more emotion than he's ever felt.’ Let's focus on that for a minute.” This is a way of gently cutting him off before he can get too far afield, while still extracting value from his answer and, you hope, helping him see what was valuable in it for next time.

If you are able to convey your appreciation for a student's participation while maintaining focus on the question at hand, you'll be more likely to step in and press pause when it's necessary for the sake of the learning community. Although some unexpected student comments are worth their weight in gold, some are not, and it's the job of the teacher to maintain the lesson's pacing through how time is allocated in the classroom.

A final note: I am a big fan of the word “pause,” specifically, in this application, as opposed to the words “stop” or “freeze” or something else. Pause implies that the stop is temporary and has a gentleness. “Stop” tends to make it feel like you've done something wrong—“pause” implies you will start up again at some point, that you will continue to share your thinking. Which, happily, is true.