- Even if everyone is on topic and listening their hardest, erroneous information could still spread. Billy Knowsforsure tells Tammy Tendstobelieve that to take the square root of something means to divide it by two; she nods, begins committing it to memory, and you never know it. Education researcher Graham Nuthall, carefully observing students during lessons, 4 found that students frequently persuaded their classmates that erroneous information was true. The most credulous were likely to be those with the weakest knowledge on a topic.

So *used frequently* does not always imply *used well*. The details of execution are critical. BreOnna Tindall's execution of her *Turn and Talk* in the video *BreOnna Tindall: Keystone* provides a road map. Students have read a short passage about the idea of “blind justice” and have been asked to discuss whether the idea of justice being blind is supposed to be a positive or a negative symbol. BreOnna gives a direction: “One minute to *Turn and Talk*. Share out your response with your face partner. Go!” Suddenly, the room crackles to life.

Her success starts with the directions. They are crisp and clear, without an extraneous word, *economy of language* exemplified. The speed and energy of the transition capped off by the cue to action “Go!” means that everyone starts at exactly the same time. No one has time or incentive to glance around and see if their peers are really doing it. In these ways her directions exemplify technique 28, *Brighten the Lines*.

Of course it's critical that *Turn and Talk* is a familiar procedure. BreOnna has taught her students how to do *Turn and Talk* well and they've practiced it. You can see their familiarity with it in the video. They know who their partner is without having to ask; they start their