learn to understand how to work within the parameters of a group or organization. Young people who are rude to teachers and classmates and who talk back and struggle to embrace common goals “are not going to magically transform themselves into prime candidates for the best jobs” or into collaborative members of the project team, observes Jo Facer in *Simplicity Rules*. To learn those things is to be ready to start your own business, raise children, or be the sort of valued colleague who brings greatness to a team or project.

And just because we teach students to understand how to work within the parameters of a group or organization “does not mean they cannot push back intellectually,” Facer continues. Learning to be a productive member of a group does not prevent you from taking political or social action in the face of unjust broader societal norms. Students who have been in well-run classrooms have not been “socialized to be compliant.” I do not buy the argument that if you call out in class and don’t follow your teacher’s direction you are learning independent thought and a commitment to justice. Or that co-opting productive meetings and being inattentive to the needs of the group is preparing for leadership. Conflating schools without rules as crucibles of liberation proposes a fairly unrealistic vision of what civil disobedience and organized dissent entail. There are actually a fairly large number of meetings required to organize groups and clarify goals. Better to have learned to clearly express your ideas, to learn how to work within group norms. Such students remain empowered to stand up to injustice when doing so is warranted and in fact have more tools to do so when required—a good education teaches students many things, including the history and tools of resistance to injustice.

This causes me to return to the phrase “productive and positive” behavior, which I used previously. That phrase