## ActiveObs in the Early Grades

You can see another example of a quieter form of *ActiveObs* in the video *Narlene Pacheco: ActiveObs*. She's done a great job of *Standardizing the Format* in her kindergarten classroom at Immaculate Conception School in the Bronx. Everyone's workspace is set up the same—clean and tidy. It's easy for her to see what she's looking for at a glance. She circulates around the room carefully but doesn't give feedback to every student. Instead, she's looking for overall trends, and she shares a reminder about that (make sure you're going from left to right) to the whole class. She's already adapting her teaching to the data. Perhaps because what she's looking for—and the range of possible errors—is smaller, she's not using a clipboard. But she uses a hint of *Affirmative Checking*—“Hands on your head when you are ready.” Students can signal when they are ready to be checked. This lets her know where to look first. She spots Clara struggling and uses **Break It Down** ([technique 37]) beautifully for her, prompting her to find the error for herself. This is successful in part because Ms. Pacheco shows such patience and emotional constancy. But it's also worth noting that she has lots of time to spend with Clara, in part because she's not trying to give feedback to every student. On the second round of observation—for the word “yet”—you can see that she's deliberately checking back on Clara to see how she does. Clara's got it, now. She smiles and Ms. Pacheco is sure to reinforce her success.

To return to Adeyemi Stembridge's observations about the nature of relationships, the responsibility of being a teacher lies in building students' relationships with