teachers, say—is in fact lack of clarity about what concrete thing to do next to begin the change: “OK, I get that I should be more rigorous, but how do I do that, or start to do that in a concrete, manageable way?” Giving people tools to try might seem less efficient than giving them an overarching system that encompasses everything they do, but trying to do everything at once is a recipe for lack of action. Having a manageable focused idea to work on can help make change and improvement safe and easy to pursue, with the result that the technique becomes part of your life. We often achieve more change over the long run via small changes in the short run.

Another key observation from *Switch* is that we tend to assume that the size of a solution must match the size of the problem. You were observed; there were criticisms; it seems you have to make wholesale changes to everything you do. Or do you? Perhaps just connecting with a few students who appear disinterested via *Cold Call*, or preparing differently so you can listen better during your classes, would make a huge difference and cause other things to fall into place. Little changes can often make a big difference.

# THE ART OF USING THE TECHNIQUES

Many of the techniques you will read about in this book may at first seem mundane and unremarkable. They are not always especially innovative. They are not always intellectually startling. They sometimes fail to march in step with educational theory. But used well and responsibly they yield an outcome that more than compensates for their occasionally humble appearance. They are worth your time and effort sometimes *because* they are so mundane and easy to overlook. *Simple and useful* can be beautiful words. But I want to emphasize that