Another approach you can use to guide the sentences students write is sentence parameters. These range from asking students to use a specific word or phrase (for example, “Be sure to use the phrase ‘stock character’ in your answer” or “Use the word ‘ambiguous’”) to naming a specific grammatical form: “Write a sentence using a subordinate clause with the word ‘despite’” or “Write a sentence beginning with a participial phrase.” You could also give parameters for length. “In a sentence of no more than eight words …” Or perhaps, if you wanted to go beyond the ‘rule’ of a single sentence, you could teach sentence rhythm this way: “Describe the conflict in Goya's painting *The Third of May* in two sentences of at least twelve words and one of no more than five.” I personally like word limits. An unintended consequence of using AOS tools can be the tacit reinforcement of *long* sentences—that's often an outcome of pushing one's syntactic limits. But of course while one needs to be able to construct a long and/or complex sentence, long and complex sentences are not always better. Short and sweet is often the definition of excellence. So one parameter you might occasionally use—implicit in one of the sentences in this example—is a word limit: “In a sentence of six or fewer words …”

The third kind of AOS prompts are nondemoninational. They simply ask students to capture a big idea in a single sentence with no other rules, often with a phrase like “in one carefully crafted sentence” or “in one beautiful sentence” to encourage students to take pride in the implicit challenge.

I noted that the prompt with a parameter may surprisingly be more rigorous. This is often true, but of course not always. Sometimes an open-ended prompt, such as “Describe Christopher's reaction in one artfully crafted sentence” is ideal, especially for students who have developed increasing fluidity with sentence structures. The