well—a *Swivel*. *Radar*’s foundation is the *Swivel*—the deliberate scan of the classroom that causes you to be sure to see as much as you can. It takes only a second or two. Ideally it would become a habit—you’d give directions and scan without even really thinking to do it.<sup>10</sup> It looks like it’s a habit for Arielle—her mind is on other things as she scans. But it helps her keep everyone positively engaged and defends against blind spots. And if she sees something small she can redirect it simply and quickly while it’s still small. The idea of catching things early while they’re tiny so the fix can also be tiny is called “catch it early.” It’ll come up later in this chapter. But to catch it early you have to see it early. So you have to look systematically.

You can observe Arielle responding to what her *Swivel* reveals when she says, “Waiting on two.” As we’ll discuss in a few pages this is called an anonymous individual correction. It lets students know she’s aware they’re a bit behind while preserving their anonymity. In this case they quickly catch up. A potential problem is averted.

You also might notice that Arielle takes a half step back when she scans. It’s the equivalent of stepping back when you are taking a photograph to get everyone in the frame. It allows her to see more of the class with less of a *Swivel*, and it reminds us that where you stand is a major factor in what and how well you see.

Julia Addeo’s *Swivel* is especially good. It’s a critical part of her transition about two minutes into her keystone. “Just one piece of feedback. Track up here,” she says to make sure students who were working on their problem set now attend to the discussion. She’s at the overhead projector and can’t afford to move to a new spot. Perhaps because of this she scans left to right and then back to the left, making it clear without any words that their focus is critical and