potentially “large benefits to incorporating attention-training activities into the school context.”¹³

Not surprisingly, it turns out that building strong habits for focusing and maintaining attention—a key aspect of how educators help support students with attention deficits—is useful for all students. Still, attention may vary from moment to moment even for the same person. Learners may concentrate deeply in one setting and be scattered in another, and this variability reminds us that learning environments shape habits of attention. Attending to attention—building habits of sustaining focus—is one of the most important things that teachers can do. If there's a mental model of a productive classroom it surely includes students able to lose themselves in a task and work at it steadily for a significant period of time, which means a setting where concentration can reliably be maintained and tasks and activities where the ability to focus is carefully cultivated.

This has always been true—and has always been a challenge, perhaps—but probably never more so than today, when the capacity of technology to affect and erode attention is exponentially greater than ever before. Yes, educators in the 1960s argued that television eroded students' attention and focus, but young people at the time did not walk around with a television in their pocket. Television was not the medium through which all of young people's social interactions were funneled. Young people did not surreptitiously—or openly—check their TVs every few minutes during class. They were not habituated to need to check their televisions every few seconds. A young person—and an adult—today owns very few garments that do not have a pocket for a smartphone. The assumption—written in the language of fabric—is that our phones are and must always be within reach. Quietly, gradually, the dosage and accessibility of technology has increased to the