words, not your emotions. That's pretty evident in all the examples we've seen so far. There's no tension to distract students from the task at hand.

Consistent **What to Do:** Use consistent language as often as you can so the directions themselves are a sort of routine in and of themselves. For example, always saying “Pencils in the tray” often works better than an unpredictable combination of “Pencils in your trays,” “Pencils in their homes,” “Pencils down,” “Put your pencils down,” “Let’s put those pencils away,” and so on. You don’t have to be obsessive about it but increasing the consistency of the language in your directions allows you to make the direction more like a habit. This frees you up to focus on your lesson and makes it easier for students to do what you’ve asked. Part of the reason Denarius’s class starts so smoothly is that he is consistent about the phrase he uses to close the Do Now nearly every day. It’s almost always “Pencils down and eyes up here” or something very similar. If there are moments when you most want follow-through, use the most familiar version of the direction.

Giving a **What to Do Out Front,** that is, in advance of a cue to begin, is a great way to make sure students hear all of your directions and aren’t distracted as you give them. For example, saying, “When I say ‘go,’ please turn to your partner and discuss your observations about the beginning of the chapter,” gives you the opportunity to make sure everyone has heard the direction and is attentive and to add further detail—“I’ll ask a few of you to share your partner’s observation”—before students rush off to Turn and Talk. If your class is especially enthusiastic and it’s a task they’re excited to do, you might even say, “When I say ‘go,’ but not before I say ‘go,’ please turn to your