There are people who will tell you that building such culture is coercive and repressive, and sometimes that this is “controlling Black and Brown bodies.” I hope this discussion will make it clear that this is a not the case.^10 To ask students to be attentive to their bodies is to *create* opportunities for their minds and spirits; to help them build habits that help them focus is to help them harness the power of their thinking. When classmates intentionally signal belonging and encouragement to one another, they release them from invisible barriers that constrain them, barriers that for some students will exist in the majority of classrooms they will enter in their lives. To shape these signals is to give students power and community in place of dependence and isolation.

Eye contact and body language are the means we use to show someone that they matter and belong. Understanding our evolution as a species can help us to understand why.

Let's start with our eyes, which have a white outer portion called the sclera. In all of the other primates, the area surrounding the pupil is dark and as a result you cannot clearly track eye movements. Scientists explain this singular aspect of human evolution via the Cooperative Eye Hypothesis. Humans act with a level of cooperation unseen in the mammal kingdom. As a species we survived because of this unequalled ability (and desire) to coordinate and collaborate. For most of evolutionary history to be cast out of the group was certain death. Our eyes have adapted to look the way they do because the information contained in the gaze of our peers—Am I accepted and respected? What is my status? Do I belong?—is central to survival. “For hundreds of thousands of years, we needed ways to develop cohesion because we depended so much on each other. We used signals long before we used language,” says Alex Pentland of the MIT Human Dynamics Lab.^11 Our physiology is designed to communicate these signals and