for two reasons: (1) The word “jot” expresses the informality and conjectural nature of the exercise. And the responses are pretty short. These aren't essays. They're forty-five, sixty, and ninety-second reflections. (2) The “stop” implies that *students are in the midst* of doing something else. We want students to write formatively as they are experiencing an idea, a question, an uncertainty. We want them to “stop” and wrestle with it on the page while the question is fresh in their heads.

So the idea behind *Everybody Writes* is simple. Ask students to write frequently and formatively and do it midstream, in short bursts throughout your lesson. Suddenly you will awaken students to a whole new side of writing. You will help them learn to think in writing.

Some other benefits of *Everybody Writes*:

- Because you can review student ideas in advance by reading over their shoulders, you're able to select useful responses to begin discussion. Of course, there will be other times when rather than looking for exemplary responses, you will seek Stop and Jots that show ideas that are partially developed or show a common confusion. It all depends what you are looking for.

- If you use *Everybody Writes* before discussion, then every idea that gets shared aloud is in effect a second draft, a thought of higher quality than what would otherwise have been shared without the opportunity to think in writing first.

- *Everybody Writes* also allows you to *Cold Call* students with the confidence that they have been set up to succeed, because you know that everyone is prepared with thoughts. You can simply ask, “What did you write about, Avery?” to kick things off.