to reaffirm her progress. “Much better,” he says to another. Consider that tiny phrase for a moment. Much better than what? Much better than the last time you attempted problems like this. What this says is: *I see you as you work. Your progress is important to me.* And in the case of a teacher as good as Denarius, *I’m going to help you to succeed.*

Denarius speaks to *everyone* as he works the room and he speaks to them *about their academic work*. Over and over, the message is *I know you; I will help you*. There could be flashier videos about connecting with students, but there probably aren’t many more substantive videos about building relationships.<sup>21</sup>

Denarius’s students love and respect him because of how he *teaches* them. This is how he builds core relationships. Fittingly, I have taken this video of Denarius from the chapter on *Checking for Understanding*. What that tells you is that to know and care deeply about your students’ progress is relationship building and that each aspect of the core job of teaching which a teacher executes with skill, humanity and warmth forms the foundation of relationships.

Part of the argument here is about where to focus our energy. It is easy to assume that if relationships are beneficial, then the more extensive the relationship, the better. But it’s not that simple. Some of us may play the role of mentor to some students in our lives—if we do, the benefit is at least half ours—but students do not need to see you as a confidant. Some students may appreciate that you care in a manner that involves chatting with them in the hallway or encouraging them to come to you with details about their personal lives and even sharing their difficulties. But plenty of them have no interest in or need for that. They are waiting for you to teach them with care