Our facility with the process of wrestling ideas into words and syntax helps (or limits) their creation. One definition of a sentence is “a complete thought,” which reminds us that sentence creation is therefore complete-thought formation and surely one of a handful of the most critical skills for any student.

Given that, it's a gift to students to give them lots of practice building complete sentences—in spoken as well as written discourse, upon reflection, and on the spur of the moment. A student's truncated answer—in a single word or a fragment of a phrase—in other words, can often be an opportunity to practice using and developing fluency with the syntactic forms that will shape their thoughts for the rest of their lives.

You can start by simply asking for a complete sentence, either *after* a truncated answer, as in:

Teacher: James, what's the setting of the novel?  
James: Oakland, California.  
Teacher: Yes, good … and in a sentence?  
James: The setting of the novel is Oakland, California, in 1968.

Or before the answer is given:

Teacher: Who can tell me in a complete sentence what the setting of the story is?

Notice in the first example that the teacher has *praised the thinking* ("Yes, good") before asking for a revision. This is an easy way to keep the tone positive and underscore that practicing sentence formation is not a judgment on the answer. A smile helps make this point too.

You'll notice, too, in the example that James adds a bit more information (he includes the year 1968). Of course that