Take Christine Torres: You'll see several videos from her classroom in this book. I first saw her teaching on an impromptu visit to Springfield Prep in Springfield, Massachusetts, and the moment I stepped into her room I was blown away. Her lessons were impeccably prepared. I would use the word *scholarly* to describe the rigor of the content and the ideas her students developed. She expressed her belief in their capacity for excellence in everything she did, and while she expected effort and focus from students, love, joy, and even playfulness also shone through.

I had observed as one of her students, making a comment intended for his peers, had muttered inaudibly while facing away from them as he spoke. “Don't talk to the wall 'cuz the wall don't ca-are,” Christine sang in a lilting voice. The student turned and smiled cautiously, noticing his classmates’ supportive gazes looking back at him. The wall might not care but his classmates were telling him with their eye contact that they did. He braced himself and offered an insight about the novel in a halting but clear voice, and you could see, afterwards, that he was happy— and just maybe a tiny bit surprised. He had done it; *he could do it*. This was a classroom that raised you up—it drew your best out of you.

Christine's classroom was, to use a phrase I will return to, a *bright mirror*. It *reflected* her students, revealing and appreciating who they already were, but it also *changed* them by bringing out things that had not been visible. It didn't just *give them an opportunity*, it influenced them intentionally to engage in positive behaviors they might not have risked, might not have even known existed, without the light of an intentionally supportive culture shining on them. *Every environment socializes the people within it to make certain choices and exhibit certain behaviors, Cass Sunstein and Richard Thaler explain in Nudge. There is no*