Another way to increase efficiency is by combining *Affirmative Checking* with *Show Me*, having students hold up their work for you to sign off on. You can see this in the video *Jon Bogard: Go to IP*, in which Jon uses whiteboards to dispatch some students to independent practice and to require more guided practice of others.

## Student-Driven Affirmative Checking

Another approach to *Affirmative Checking* is to allow your students to own more of the process of checking for accuracy and then present the data to you. Students could self-check on a key you provide and report their results. Or they could be responsible for checking one another's work in partners and then report the results to you, which would reduce the number of checks you needed to make. This works best when it relies on objective rather than subjective assessments.

One important fact to consider if you have students participate in *Affirmative Checking* is that there are two key purposes to the technique. One is to make sure that students are successful before going on to more complex work; the other is for you to gather data on how your students are doing. Distributing the checking accomplishes the first with more efficiency, but risks reducing your access to the data: If students self-check, will you know how they did? I'm sure you will find a way to balance these goals—either by using student-centered checking sometimes and checking yourself other times, or by engineering ways to track the data during student-centered checking (or both). For example, if students self-checked against a rubric, they could check a box to show how they did so that you could track it later. It's just important to be aware of the challenge and the possible trade-off as you're out there adapting and designing new and better solutions.