they asked students to do things.

We have distilled these observations into six replicable principles that teachers can name a practice.

## Principle 1: Shift Your Register

Watch the body language of Arielle Hoo and Denarius Frazier in the short video Hoo and Frazier: Register Shift. In the moment when each asks for students' attention, their body language shifts slightly. Arielle steps back from the projector, holds herself upright and symmetrical, and scans the room. She does this for perhaps a second. Beforehand, she's more fluid in her motions and posture and by the time she has said, “Great, let's take a look at Tyler's work,” she has shifted back to this more informal body language once again, but in that short moment of formality she signals to her class the importance of what they are about to do and they respond. She's asked for their eye contact with her words but, also, with the signals of body language and tone.

So, too, does Denarius. Preparing students to analyze an example of student work, he steps forward slightly, so students can see him better. He stands upright, chin slightly raised, and symmetrical. His cadence slows slightly. Again there's an air of formality. And then, like Arielle, the formality dissolves into a more casual tone, “On a few of our papers ...” he says, his voice now sounding more relaxed. But that short shift has signalled to students that what we are doing is important, worthy of increased attention, and they have intuitively responded.

Neither teacher is tense, mind you, just slightly formal and this moment of heightened formality is like a punctuation mark: short but legible and shaping the meaning of what gets said before and after.