than to revise a sentence so as to use a subordinating conjunction, for example. In fact, many teachers, too, will choose editing over revising for this reason. But of course the real work is in revision.

One high-value task Hochman suggests is to ask students to add an appositive phrase to a sentence that lacks substance. In a lesson at New Dorp High School in Staten Island, a teacher began revising the sentence “Gandhi had an impact.” The teacher first asked her students to use a *Turn and Talk* to write four good appositives to describe Gandhi. Students then inserted the best appositives into the sentence so that it read, for example, “Gandhi, a pacifist and important leader, had an impact.” After the teacher asked her students to add a few more clarifications, the students came up with sentences like these: “Gandhi, a pacifist and important leader in India, had a strong impact on society.” And the best part was not so much that her students had made this sentence markedly better, it was that they were learning how to use a replicable device, the addition of an appositive phrase, to improve any sentence they might write. That’s the power of a good revision task: it teaches a replicable skill.

With thanks to Hochman for the insights that inform some of these suggestions, here are a few more high-value revision tasks:

1. Take a look at Ivan's work here. I want you to find two places where more specific technical vocabulary could make his work even better.

2. Take a look at Ivan's work here. I want you to find at least one place where he could replace a direct quotation with a partial or full paraphrase. Be ready to show us how he could write into or out of the quotation.