told us something similar when we spoke to her. “I’ll always include the laps that I make. So on lap number one I’m just coming around to look at your multiplication. Or I’m just coming around to just see how you isolated the variable. I’ll include that for most essential questions on either a *Do Now* or a problem set.” In other words, she’s not looking for everything at once but imagines a series of observational rounds, each focused on a slightly different aspect of the task.

“I check every student multiple times during math block,” fourth-grade teacher Nicole Warren told me (you can see her *Active Observation* in the video *Nicole Warren: Keystone*). “I first observe for procedural norms, including marking up the problem and labeling work. Then I circulate for conceptual understanding and record which students are on track, which students have basic mathematical errors, and which students might have a deeper conceptual misunderstanding. This helps to make the plan for the discussion and also helps build accountability around student work.”

“When students know you’ll be circulating to them every couple of minutes,” Nicole Willey said, “they work quickly and efficiently. They love being rewarded by a smiley face on their paper or a high-five. [The joy students feel in Nicole’s small notes and appreciations as she observes is extremely evident in the video.] There’s also a lot of celebration around success and growth. At the end of the (class) each day, I announce which students achieved 100 percent, as well as which students improved. Students are highly invested in this moment of public recognition. We also have group goals that if, as a class, we get 100 percent on each of the questions the class gets a special prize. These incentives, while external, build a sense of community and showcase that working hard leads to long-term success.”