each student and reminding them all that you know them as individuals. You can also build rapport while reinforcing expectations for *Threshold* by warmly acknowledging students with strong greetings: “Nice strong shake, Jamal”; “I love the enthusiasm, Terry.”

You can also welcome students with a description of what's to come and a reminder of what's expected: “We have a quiz today. Better use that *Do Now* to get ready.” You should also use *Threshold* to set expectations by correcting weak handshakes, untidy attire, apathetic greetings, or poor eye contact. Fortunately, this is easy to do because *Threshold* has a built-in consequence. Get it wrong, and if necessary you go back and try it again.

When you stand at the doorway, position yourself to see *both sides* so that you can maintain visibility of students who have already entered your classroom as well as those you're greeting. Once they enter, narrate a bit of positive behavior: “Thanks for getting *right* to work”; “Good work, Jamila. Appreciate you getting that homework *right* out.” If you notice that several students in class are not meeting expectations, you can warmly remind them of what they should be doing: “Make sure those chairs are tucked in so that everyone can get by,” or “Remember, we enter with ‘voices off.’”

If it's not possible for you to greet students at the door (either for school policy reasons or because you float to classrooms), invent another ritual to signify the start of something formal, as Tamesha does. What matters is that you use the power of ritual to help students see, from the moment they enter your classroom, that it is different from the other places they go.

For busy teachers, the time just after students have entered class—while they're walking in, getting seated, and hopefully working on a *Do Now*—can sometimes be a bit of