necessarily because the mainstream is better ... but because if you want to make significant changes to any systems, you have to be able to first get in by the gatekeepers' standards.”⁸

Some people worry that this will cause students to feel like they or their own forms of language are somehow inferior, but why assume that? Would you presume as much about yourself? If you moved to England (or if you are English, if you moved to the United States), you would start speaking differently in certain public settings; do you imagine that you would lose your sense of identity and self-worth? I suspect you would remain very much you despite adapting your language habits in some settings. Our students are strong; why think them less capable than ourselves of making language choices without a loss of identity? If you are worried that some might feel their own language implicitly undervalued, it is certainly something you can address as a teacher. Writing about her own experience in school, Lane observes that she never felt learning to use language differently was a rejection of who she was, “I just needed someone to explicitly teach me the importance of both [ways of using language].”

Our job, in other words, is to teach students—with sensitivity, nuance, and judgment—to master Standard English. For some, our classrooms may be their only chance to learn it. And the best way to do this is to build verbal and written habits. *When we are in the classroom* we shift to a mode of discourse that ensures consistent and sustained exposure to the standard form so that all students will be able to use it naturally and effortlessly.⁹

I’ll begin by describing the *what* of *Format Matters*, but I’ll also discuss the *how*—an issue that is equally important.

There are four specific actions I think teachers can take within *Format Matters*: