about something in working memory—a scene in a novel you are reading, say—and suddenly the connections from your long-term memory start to pour in. It's like another book you read; it's an example of a sociological theory; what you are reading is not historically accurate. These forms of critical thinking are relying on knowledge encoded in long-term memory. As Willingham writes, “Data from the last 30 years lead to a conclusion that is not scientifically challengeable: Thinking well requires knowing facts… . The very processes that teachers care about most—critical thinking processes like reasoning and problem solving—are intimately intertwined with factual knowledge that is in long-term memory.”^5^ “Much of the time when we see someone apparently engaged in logical thinking, he or she is actually engaged in memory retrieval,” Willingham continues.

This notion should inform every teacher's mental model. First, critical thinking and problem solving are not the opposite of factual knowledge. They rely on it. This is important to note because a great many educators are scornful of facts. Why teach them, the argument goes, when you can Google anything? We should teach critical thinking instead. The answer to that rhetorical question as Willingham tells us is that you can’t teach critical thinking without facts. Problem solving is “domain specific”; for the most part you can have deep thoughts only about things you know something about.

In a recent workshop with school leaders I tried to add a bit to Willingham's diagram to capture a bit more about what it tells us. I came up with something like this: