is, we should always remain aware, easier to rationalize the preferential treatment for the caregiver than try the riskier one that will serve students in the long run. Faced with making a classroom where students are socialized to show they value one another's ideas through prosocial nonverbal actions including eye contact, the path of explaining why students should not be coerced to track their classmates in the first place beckons.

The harder the task, the greater the risk some educator somewhere will create a very smart or righteous-sounding rationale against it. That is certainly a far less risky path than the difficult and thankless work of shaping norms to ensure the rights of all children to learn in classrooms that truly prepare them to achieve their dreams.

I have written, in the margin of my version of *Teach Like a Champion 2.0*, a phrase that I have tried to use frequently in this book: *loving accountability*. That might not be a phrase that would naturally occur to a lot of people. Admittedly, it took several years of writing about teaching for it to come to me. But it is deeply important. It reminds us, first, that moments of accountability can and should be done with a smile to remind students that we care about them, and, second, that accountability is a form of love.

When we *Cold Call*, for example, we are drawing students—sometimes willingly, sometimes hesitantly—into the conversation and thus telling them their voice matters. We are building for them a habit of paying attention more fully, and sustaining that habit of attention. As Zaretta Hammond writes, in a phrase I will return to, “Before we can be motivated to learn what is in front of us, we must pay attention to it. The hallmark of an independent learner is his ability to direct his attention toward his own leaning.” Building someone's attentiveness in class is a gift.