The kids didn't get this. When asked, students postulated that the sorts of things Cherry was doing included “going shopping and hanging out with friends.” Because hanging out with friends was what Ponyboy would do, the teacher tried to break the complexity down a bit. “Can anyone connect this to the phrase ‘the rat race’?” (They had discussed earlier Ponyboy’s use of the term to disparage trying to succeed and cross the class divide.) Again students struggled to make the connection. So the teacher tried to break down the misunderstanding even further, hoping students would recognize the differences in how the two characters spent their time. Who was more likely to take music lessons? she asked. Cherry or Ponyboy? Why? Ponyboy didn't have parents to supervise him. If this was one sort of thing she might be doing when she was “busy,” what were some others?

The good news is that the teacher uncovered and addressed the fundamental misunderstanding among her class, but the result was also that a rigorous, metaphorical conversation with implications about socioeconomic class had been replaced by a literal one. The sequence ended with a small and narrow inference about who was more likely to take music lessons and never got back to implications about character or class: rigor collapse.

After winnowing questions, then, it’s often important to make broader sense of the answer students gave. Imagine, for example, if the teacher were to say something like, “Good; now connect that to one of the themes we’ve discussed from the book,” or “Good; now connect that to our discussion of class divide.”

If *Breaking It Down* takes a broad question and narrows it, a last move of connecting the narrow to a broader point is sometimes necessary.