and industriously in complete sentences the whole way. No wonder they're so eager to share out! When they do, you can see a combination of *Habits of Attention* (technique 48) ensuring that they listen well and *Habits of Discussion* (technique 44) building the listening skills that make for a real discussion.

Na’Jee Carter: I write about Na'Jee's *Cold Calling* (technique 34) in the clip extensively in *Chapter Seven* but note also his outstanding *Habits of Discussion* (technique 44): his students listen as well as they speak. His impeccable *Procedures and Routines* (*Chapter Ten*) not only help keep his reading group on task and make sure transitions are efficient but they ensure that the students not in his reading group are happily and productively engaged the whole time. His *Accountable Independent Reading* (technique 23) is super productive because he is so clear on the annotation task and this allows him to observe clearly how his readers are doing, but before he sends everyone off to read he *Replaces Self-Report* (technique 6), asking students a series of questions to assess their understanding of the task instead of merely asking them if they understand.

Denarius Frazier (Uncommon Collegiate Charter High School): I discuss a section of this video extensively in *Chapter Three*, *Check for Understanding*. Denarius models almost every technique in the chapter, starting with Active Observation and ending with *Show Call* in manner that is fundamental to understanding the reality of how productive and enduring relationships are built in the classroom. But notice also how he moves to the corner and uses *Radar and Be Seen Looking* (technique 53) and a *Least Invasive Intervention* (technique 55) to ensure that everyone is attentive. And notice how his *Emotional Constancy* (technique 62) assists him in building a *Culture of Error*