Lastly, teachers sometimes think they need to wait until an entire routine or activity is done before asking the class to try it again. In fact, you should have students go back and try it again as soon as you know that the level of execution will not meet the standard you set for it. Don't wait for the routine to end. Again, this will better connect the stimulus to the response. Let's say students are lining up for lunch, and the drill is to stand up quietly, push in their chairs, turn to face the door, and then follow the table leader to the door. If students forget to push in their chairs, have them sit back down and try it again right then. This saves time and reinforces instant accountability.

# Putting It All Together

In the video *Montage: Do It Again*, you can see a few intriguing video examples of *Do It Again* in the classroom. You'll have to watch carefully because they come and go fast, which is part of the point. The less fuss, less disruption, and less censuring of students, the better. Simple and clear, nonjudgmental, and even positive when possible. You can see that in Erica Lim's class. She's starting for the day and wants to make sure to set expectations for follow-through on the greeting. It's not a big thing, yet you don't have to do it if you don't want to make follow-through questionable on all tasks. So she offers a simple and quick and emotionally constant reminder of what she knows her high schoolers know how to do. Denarius Frazier, too, is emotionally constant. If we're going to try to use tools that build positive culture and show appreciation for success, they'll be positive only if they are universal. When the response is spotty, Denarius asks quickly for a redo—the quicker the better—and is almost deadpan, showing a hint of a surprise. Much better, he says, when students follow through. He's reinforced this routine and the norm of follow-through on all such routines.