expressive sentences, but this one might have a little too much in it for clarity.”

Assuming the best is especially effective for errors on challenging academic work. Learning is full of mistakes done for good reasons. There are those that spring from an overabundance of diligence—“You told me to use transition words so I used far too many”—and those rooted in too much enthusiasm—“I've just learned to reduce fractions and now I want to reduce and reduce and reduce everything … even when I can't.”

Assuming the best might give credit for a good idea and then offer the correction: “I like that you're looking to reduce. But we can't do that here.” Or “I love to see you trying to use those transition words but there are so many they've gotten a bit confusing.” Looking for the good intention behind the mistake, looking to assume the best, has the additional benefit of causing *you* to think about all the good reasons why students might have done something that at first looks egregious. Assuming well-intentioned errors can help you to see more of the positivity that already exists.

It's important to remember that you, too, participate in setting the norms of your classroom by describing what you expect. Assuming the best reinforces positive norms (and expresses a quiet confidence). It suggests that you struggle to imagine a universe in which students would not be productive, considerate, and scholarly because of your faith both in them and in the culture of your own classroom. You implicitly describe the norm you believe to be there—everyone making a good faith effort. If by contrast you were to assume the worst, you would be suggesting that sloppiness, inconsiderateness, and whatever else were what you yourself expected in your classroom.