when perhaps it would be good for them to talk a little more.

Eric Snider of Achievement First Bushwick Middle School used the idea of managed turns to address that in a recent lesson. His class was reading Ray Bradbury. During a tense scene, Eric looked at his students. “What is David, the son, feeling worried about?” Pausing briefly, he added, “Long hair to short hair.” That phrase was their prompt to *Turn and Talk*. It meant that the member of each pair with longer hair would start the conversation. Other times when Eric used the in-cue, he would say, “Short hair to long hair,”⁵ to reverse whose turn came first and ensure balance in participation. Other times, of course, he would not specify who began and would leave it to students instead. The idea is to occasionally increase voice equity by balancing the talking and listening roles.

A related tool that can balance voice equity during *Turn and Talks* is to insert an intentional switch point. For instance, “We're halfway through your ninety seconds. Please be sure switch partners if you haven't already.”

Another useful tool for socializing listening in *Turn and Talks* is to ask students to refer to their partner's idea when calling on them afterwards, as in: “Rodrigo, what did you and Kelsey talk about?” Or, after Rodrigo says, “I think the reaction is going to give off heat energy,” asking, “Did Kelsey agree?” Or, on occasions when students spontaneously mention their partners’ thinking—“We weren't sure but Kelsey thought it would be exothermic”—saying “Thank you for referencing your partner's ideas.”

You could also be more meta: “I'd love to hear from some class members whose partner shared a particularly useful example during the *Turn and Talk*.” Or “I'd like to start with someone whose partner said something surprising.” Letting students know that we notice and care when they