Derek Pollak's classrooms, they persist even on multiple
returns.

What if that's not the case? What if individual students or a
roomful of students are not yet willing to struggle forward
like that? What if they do not yet fully trust the process and
are reluctant or resistant? What if they start not at a very
good answer, as Aaron does, but at “I have no idea”? How
to help them then?

Worse, what if they start at “I have no idea and am not sure
I wish to try”? Or even “I have no idea, so leave me alone”?

The reality of teaching is that we are often tasked with
addressing reluctance, resistance, learned helplessness, or
even outright refusal on the part of students. Some
students may give up in the face of what seems to us like a
minor challenge. You ask and the answer is very quickly “I
don't know.” Others may not be willing to even try in the
first place. You ask and the answer is “I don't know,” and
whether they realize it or not, if the *I don't knows* continue,
they create an easy out for themselves because in many
cases teachers don't know how to respond to “I don't
know”—times 100 if it's delivered with a bit of sharpness,
as if to say *I already told you I don't know*. When teachers
don't know how to respond to that, the result is often that
they leave the student alone for the rest of the class.

Or the rest of the week.

Or the rest of the year.

It's a case of the Band-Aid Paradox. We're asked to do
what's difficult and sometimes scary. It's easier to make
“the deal” with students, which is basically, *I will expect
nothing challenging or effortful from you if you agree not to
disrupt my class or behave negatively*. You can sit in the
corner and I will call on someone else. We all know that
there are classrooms where this happens. Students may not