Massachusetts, to understand a bit more about the connection between preparation and teaching. In the video *Christine Torres: Keystone*, you will probably notice almost immediately how dynamic her lesson is—every student locked-in to learning in the most positive way and each second used for a productive activity that causes students to think. They work hard and seem to love it. Goodness, you're thinking, if my class looked like that, I could do this job forever. We had the same response. In fact we shot this video of Christine because we'd visited her school—without our cameras, alas—a few weeks earlier and had been immediately transfixed by the joyful, energetic, thoughtful lesson Christine was teaching. We could barely drag ourselves out of her classroom, and then only because they promised we could videotape her as soon as possible. That's the back story on where this video comes from. But one other detail is relevant from that first visit to Springfield Prep. Christine shared a copy of her packet—the place where she prepares her lesson, a copy of which is available on the website [www.wiley.com/go/teachlikeachampion3](http://www.wiley.com/go/teachlikeachampion3). This is the tool she used to get ready to teach a different lesson from the one you just watched, but one which reveals the process she uses for every lesson—which is interesting in and of itself. She is consistent in how she prepares and so her lessons are consistent in quality, engagement, and energy. Remarkably so, which is sort of the point. The first step in making your classroom look more like Christine's is to copy—or at least study and adapt—her approach to preparation. You can see that Christine has spent time in “exemplar planning”: Before the lesson she took the time to write out the answer to each question as she hoped a top student would. This helps to focus her in discussions—to draw out the right points and hear the gaps. And she can glance at