5. An interview with Paul Simon on the Dick Cavett Show ([https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFt0cP-klQI](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFt0cP-klQI)) provides a good example. Simon is discussing how he wrote the song *Bridge Over Troubled Water*. He describes being stuck and suddenly thinking of a Bach *Chorale*, which he transposed and inserted into the song. (But only because knowledge of chorales and what they sounded like was in his long-term memory.) At a second point, Simon recalls, a gospel album that had been “constantly on my mind” because he had been playing it over and over “must have subconsciously influenced me because I started to go to gospel changes. …” To do this he had to encode the knowledge of how gospel sounded generally and what gospel “changes” sounded like in his long-term memory by playing the record over and over. And understanding the idea of typical chord change patterns (“changes”) itself relies of knowledge of musical theory; you have to know what “changes” are to listen for them. All of this caused insights to “come to him” suddenly while he was thinking about his own song. Inspiration and creativity relied on broad knowledge of Bach, gospel, and music theory. The insights were as much about the fusions of various schemes of knowledge as anything else.

6. Paul Simon, for example, would be extremely unlikely to think: I think I'll read up on Bach Chorales because just maybe they'd fit here in my song. He had to have the knowledge already to make the connection. The knowledge is what tells him what to “look up.”

7. See Willingham, especially. “Memory is the residue of thought, meaning that the more *you think about* something, the more likely it is that you'll remember it later.” Cognitive scientists like Willingham would argue that if you don't remember it, you haven't really learned