She's reminding students beforehand that parts of chemistry are difficult—for everyone—and that they don't need to respond to difficulty with panic or frustration but with steady diligence and the willingness to practice.

Later again in the lesson Sadie asks Kendall to explain how to get the exponent in an equation. Kendall's answer is wrong, but Sadie's first words are telling: “I'm glad you said that. That's not why. That's not where we get our exponents, but Kendall has lifted up something that is a common mistake. The coefficients do not matter ... you have to use your concentration data, and we're going to keep practicing that.” Earlier I noted that one key to building a *Culture of Error* was to diffuse defensiveness and anxiety about mistakes while still making it clear that mistakes were mistakes. Sadie does that beautifully here. It's a useful answer, she notes—she's glad Kendall offered it—because it's wrong. Sadie's management of her tell is impeccable: She's warm and supportive and unflappable. Her first words are of appreciation and then she gets down to explaining the useful lesson of Kendall's answer.

# Notes

1. The first Forgetting Curve was drawn by Hermann Ebbinghaus in 1885, tracing the rate at which he remembered (or failed to remember) nonsense syllables. The findings have been replicated in principle but how quickly forgetting happens in any specific case depends on who is trying to remember what and under what conditions. Still the principle endures across settings: forgetting starts right away and is always at work. Repetition matters.