about building Deborah up; it also reinforces their understanding. It's a form of Retrieval Practice ([technique 7](#)), encoding knowledge more deeply in long-term memory via recall and, here especially, elaboration. “Beautifully explained,” Ijeoma says to Jules, whom we can't see, after he has put the ideas he sees on the graph into new words. He's done well, but it was hard work. You could hear the labor in his voice. Memory is the residue of effort. He's worked hard to elaborate precisely, and this will help him remember and encode, and Ijeoma shows her appreciation for his work.

But there's another crucial benefit to *Show Call* that we see evidence of in Ijeoma's class. Deborah has annotated the diagram to show that there are corresponding angles in it—she's written the phrase across the side—but not *where* they are. She knows they're there —she just isn't sure how to find them. This underscores the critical and underrated role of perception in learning.

“She says that there must be corresponding angles somewhere,” Ijeoma says, referring to Deborah's annotation, “and I agree,” but then she asks: “Where should I place a star for the other angle that corresponds to that 25?” She calls on Michaela and as Michaela narrates her thought process, something very important is happening. *Everyone is looking at what Michaela is describing as she describes it.* If you want a group of people to problem solve, they need to all be looking at the same version of a problem. With the work projected, Ijeoma can guide students' eyes through their study of it. She is teaching them mathematical concepts *and how to perceive on their own when they apply*. While this is an example from a math class, perception is equally important, if not more critical, in studying a section of text, either from a writing or a close reading perspective. The discussion can be radically improved when a student states vaguely that