show they value their partner's contributions is one way to get them to do more of it.

“In questioning after a *Turn and Talk*, I ask about the conversations,” Bill Wilkinson, deputy head of science at Beechen Cliff School, in Bath, England, noted. He suggests asking such questions as: (1) Which pairs disagreed on the answer at first? (2) Which pairs agreed by the end? (3) Which of you changed your mind? Tell us why. (4) Don't tell me what you thought, tell me what your partner thought.

## The Accountability Challenge

Here are some tools that can help to ensure that your *Turn and Talks* are accountable and focused—that is, that students feel gentle pressure to do their best work and stay on task.

Use *Cold Call* (technique 34) to set the expectation that everyone should be ready to talk about some insight he or she gleaned after the *Turn and Talk* is complete. Have a positive tone and make sure you sound genuinely interested: *Magalie, tell us a bit about what you and Donald spoke about...* If this is relatively predictable, students will know they have to be ready to summarize their conversation. You can often make this likelihood of a *Cold Call* more transparent by letting students know beforehand that it’s likely to occur: “One minute to discuss the imagery you noticed with your partner. I may *Cold Call* a few of you to share, so be ready with what you and your partner discussed. Go!”

Circulating during the *Turn and Talk* and listening in on conversations gives you a double bonus—it allows you to show appreciation for and interest in good work and tacitly ensure students are focused and productive. You can see in the following pictures of Christine Torres, Sarah Wright, and BreOnna Tindall how they use body language and