correct or am I wrong?” He tacitly required Kevin to take ownership of his actions by acknowledging them.

- Once Kevin acknowledged his actions, Hasan's tone lightened ever so slightly and he asked: Why were you sleeping? He was still reserved. There's no baby talk—you could imagine a teacher using a *Why were you so-o sleepy?* approach here—but his tone reacts subtly to the degree to which Kevin owns the issue.

- When Kevin describes what's wrong with sleeping in class, Hasan does not excuse the action. He explains the problem and pauses again. His economy of language is noticeable. Adding extraneous verbiage makes the interaction more casual (see technique 58, *Strong Voice*), but Hasan wants formality here.

- Hasan focuses on depersonalizing the interaction and stressing *Purpose Over Power* (technique 56, *Firm, Calm Finesse*) rephrasing Kevin's assertion that he might have made Hasan “sad” to focus on learning—*It makes me feel like you don't think what we're doing in class is important.*

- Kevin suggests a consequence and Hasan agrees to it. A lot of teachers might say, “That's OK,” but Hasan accepts Kevin's proposed consequence because the consequence will help Kevin remember and allow Kevin to make a gesture of resolution—this is an important step in resolution and closure. Hasan tells Kevin he appreciates his solution and then, a bit warmer, reminds him that he looks forward to seeing him back in class.

Some useful tools for achieving *Warm/Strict*:

*Explain to students why you're doing what you're doing and how it is designed to help them:*³ “Priya, we don't do that in this classroom because it keeps us from making the most of