freezes or gets an answer wrong when they've been *Cold Called* (in fact, it's one key reason why some are reluctant to try the technique, an important consideration for trainers and school leaders to be aware of), but Denarius provides a simple and effective solution. He responds with a *Turn and Talk* to let everyone discuss the question. Implicit in this decision is the idea that if Shamari didn't know, others probably didn't as well. (You could also make this assumption explicit by saying it out loud: “Hmm. Tough question. I bet lots of us are struggling with it. Let's review.”) Coming out of the *Turn and Talk*, there's another *Cold Call* to make sure students engaged fully.

Now let's step into Na’Jee’s classroom to watch the video *Na’Jee Carter: Cold Call Montage*. His reading group is discussing internal and external conflict in stories. After a quick *Call and Response* where students answer that there are two types of conflict, Na’Jee *Cold Calls* Marcel to identify them. “Marcel, talk to me …” he says. Na’Jee’s language choice here is striking. He hopes Marcel will know but he's given himself a bit of wiggle room. What is the wrong answer to the question “Talk to me”? Na’Jee can turn almost any answer from Marcel into a positive starting point for the discussion. He can make Marcel and the group feel successful right from the outset, and increase their motivation and sense of progress. They will be more engaged and more willing to take academic risks throughout. We see this cycle of early success in motivating participants even with adults at our workshops, where people sometimes are reluctant to risk raising their hand in front of 100-plus people. Typically if we start the day by *Cold Calling* them in a way that ensures their success, they begin raising their hands of their own volition. Through *Cold Call*, they have successfully entered the conversation and have grown comfortable speaking in front of 100 colleagues. *Cold Call* has allowed them to take the risk and