sense of how discussion should work—a mental model. So if a teacher can instill strong conversational habits and an effective mental model, she will help students quite naturally build discussions that are connected, in which participants show appreciation for one another.

Cultures that express appreciation during discussion and especially when there is disagreement are important for more reasons than cordiality. Jonathan Haidt explains in his book *The Righteous Mind* that people are much more likely to change their opinion when they like the person they are talking to and know he or she likes and cares about them. Ideas that change us come from people we perceive as allies. We like and trust them first; then we listen with openness. This is especially true when we already believe something. Someone who confronts us almost never changes an established belief; only someone we *want* to believe does that, Haidt finds. So when mutual respect and psychological safety pervade, and where the ethos is collaborative, and the message is *We are working together to understand this*, then, true open-mindedness and maximum learning are likely to occur.

In most cases, good discussion skills, those that allow certain people to bring out the best in their colleagues, are not “naturally occurring.” Especially not today, when abrasive models of conversation are so commonly normalized on social media. To reliably have great discussions in your classroom, it’s necessary to instill such behaviors deliberately. Doing so is a technique I call *Habits of Discussion*, and it’s a powerful tool. The return on the investment in teaching students how to discuss is immense.

The first step in building strong *Habits of Discussion* is a series of nearly invisible behaviors displayed by participants in a conversation that signal the importance of the endeavor and remind other participants of their