prodding to speak up. You use the same lesson *plan* for both classes, but you *prepare* it differently.

“The techniques that work to support engagement with one group of learners may need to be applied differently from one classroom to the next,” notes Adeyemi Stembridge. “The design of highly engaging learning experiences requires a keen sense of context because human beings are a highly social species and interpersonal and cultural contexts matter.”^1

Perhaps on Tuesday, that means a bit more writing to get third period to slow down and reflect and a few more Turn and Talks to draw the fifth period classroom out. Perhaps a student in fifth period used a beautiful phrase to describe a passage from the novel and you want to remember to go back and ask her about it at a critical point in the lesson. Despite using the same lesson plan for both lessons, an effective process for lesson preparation has caused you to plan for crucial differences in how you'll teach each class.

The first step in preparation is to know the content of your lesson well. You can’t teach at your best if you’re not sure what comes next and have to read ahead when you should be listening, explaining, or observing. Managing working memory is important for teachers, not just students. I’ll come back to this idea at the end of this section because there’s more to it than first appears. But beyond the necessity of developing familiarity with *what you’re* teaching, developing habits that can help you adapt your lesson successfully to the setting and react effectively to events as you teach is critical to a teacher’s short- and long-term success. Such habits might seem like they would add to your workload, but done well they will reduce it, helping you succeed while maintaining balance and sustainability in your teaching life.