the art is in the discretionary application of the techniques. I've tried to help artisans be artists, not because I think the work of teaching can be mechanized or made formulaic. There is a right and wrong time and place for all of the tools. Effective application will always fall to the unique style and vision of great teachers. That, in a word, is artistry. Great teaching is no less great because the teacher systematically mastered specific skills than is *David* a lesser reflection of Michelangelo's genius because Michelangelo mastered the grammar of the chisel before he created the statue. I believe that given the tools here, teachers will make insightful, independent decisions about how and when to use the techniques of the craft as they go about becoming masters of the art of teaching.

## DEFINING WHAT WORKS

If you've read previous versions of this book you know that my process of finding teachers to study began with test scores. I looked for individuals and schools that, controlling for poverty, were positive outliers. These were teachers (and sometimes whole schools) who worked with students in neighborhoods where often only a fraction of students graduate from high school, never mind go on to college, or where typically only 10 or 20 percent of students might pass a given state test (an incomplete but still important measure of progress) in a typical year. And yet working in that same landscape, the teachers I was studying helped their students achieve at a dramatically higher rate than anyone would have predicted: they might have double the number of students passing ... or *four times* the number of students passing. Sometimes every single kid passed. Sometimes they had more kids score “advanced” than teachers in surrounding schools had kids score “proficient.”