time. Show Call exemplar.”). Some people worry that too much preparation will make it harder to express themselves and connect with students, but the opposite is true here. Christine is prepared and so she is able to be fully responsive. Students feel seen and known by their teacher and as though they have her full attention. Her warmth and humor are magnified by virtue of her being calm, relaxed, and ready—and perhaps from the students' pride in their work and willingness to engage successfully with the tasks presented. Her careful planning sets a pattern in the first few minutes of class: She's clear with students about the task, they respond positively, and she can relax and express all her humor and brilliance as a teacher. They lather, rinse, and repeat all class long. It all starts with what's on her “Preparation Page.”

James Clear's *Atomic Habits* lends insight into another way to understand why the time Christine invests in preparation results in such a powerful outcome in her classroom. Clear cites a British study where three groups of people were asked to try to begin exercising. The control group received no special treatment. The second group received motivational materials. The third group received motivational material and was asked to complete the following sentence: “I will take 20 minutes of vigorous exercise on [DATE] in [TIME] at [PLACE].” The rates of people from the three groups who actually exercised were 35 percent, 38 percent, and 91 percent. The follow-through rates when people committed to a particular action for time and place nearly tripled over those who wanted to do those things but weren't specific in planning time and place. In Clear's words, “People who make a specific plan for when and where they will perform a new habit are more likely to follow-through. Too many people try to change habits [or apply teaching techniques] without these basic details figured out.”