impressively high and Christine's students learn new knowledge in a joyful flow-like setting.

## Activity 2: Guided Practice/Guided Questioning

When students engage in activities that involve more extensive back-and-forth with the teacher, practicing the use or application of knowledge, they are engaged in guided practice/guided questioning. Rosenshine emphasizes the importance of this stage for working examples and releasing autonomy gradually to students. Guided practice might involve executing the steps in solving a problem, with the teacher asking questions to remind students what step to take next, or it might involve explication of a text passage with the teacher consistently providing new and more targeted questions to unlock understanding. It is usually used before students have independent mastery. Some examples:

After asking her students what would happen to the pressure in a fixed container if temperature increased, Sadie asks, “OK, why would the pressure increase?”

A student says: “Because there are more collisions.”

“But why are there more collisions?” Sadie asks.

“Because the particles are moving faster.”

“OK, what if the container was flexible? Then what?”

A class solves a problem involving systems of equations together, with the teacher asking various students to explain the steps, identify the next step or solve the calculations required in a given step.

During a close reading burst, a teacher asks his students to annotate each reference to the sun in the opening pages of *Grapes of Wrath*. Through a series of questions (some written, some oral), the class unpacks the way Steinbeck