situations. First, they are useful when performing especially complex and sophisticated work. Surgeons use them, for example—though they resisted them for years. So do engineers who build massive skyscrapers. In each of these examples, “the volume and complexity of what we know has exceeded our individual ability to deliver its benefits correctly, safely, or reliably.” A tool to focus observations is more important for experts because they know much more than they can keep in working memory while observing! Certainly this is true for teachers, who balance a complex daily instructional plan filled with challenging content and the individual learning needs of up to thirty twelve-year-olds, for example.

The second situation when checklists are especially valuable is when you want reliable results across a large organization with a lot of autonomy—a school, for example. If everyone agrees on what *right* looks like, it can reduce variability in execution while preserving autonomy. Want to start having “intellectual preparation” meetings at your school? Writing and comparing exemplars to various key questions might be the ideal activity. When we ask students, “How is Jonas changing in this chapter?” discussing the nuances of what could or should be in your exemplar is a perfect way to discuss interpretations and insights about the text.

There's a bit of humility necessary to unlock the power of exemplar planning. It seems like such a mundane task at first, but the more you know, ironically, the more you need to organize what you're looking for. I assure you, Denarius knows his division of polynomials and Julia knows her binomials. Christine knows *Number the Stars*. Sarah knows how Tio Luis feels upon discovering Abuelita's disappearance. But they write the ideal answer out anyway and this helps them to organize and reinforce in their own