like a foottrace—causing students to start together, as a team. Not only does this implicitly frame the forthcoming activity positively, but it also causes everyone in the class to start exactly on cue. That half-second delay causes students to work more industriously once they are “allowed” to. Plus, students see all of their peers snap to it—normalizing the idea of making productive use of time.

The cue doesn't have to be “go,” of course. There are dozens of options you could use (e.g. “off you go”; “give it a go”; “begin,” etc.), but as Peps Mccrea explains in *Motivated Teaching*, the cue is an essential part of the routine. He describes the ideal cue as “distinct,” meaning it won't be misinterpreted, “multimodal,” combining language or speech with action or position, and “punchy.” With cues that fit these criteria, Mccrea argues, we make the norms more visible and thus more widespread across the class. If it's unclear whether everyone else has actually started something, there's a potential incentive to take your time so as to avoid being the outlier (the first to start). If everyone begins on cue, there are no grounds for strategically managing the optimum starting point. Everyone else just started. Better catch up!

Previously, I mentioned that you can use pacing tools to make “slower” work more reflective and engaging; some simple adaptations to the go start can help. You might, for example, encourage deeper, more reflective thinking by prompting students with a slower, quieter cadence, “Ah, a fascinating question: Just who is the hero of this book? You have three minutes to reflect in writing. [Pause] Who is the hero, and how do you know?” Now perhaps you've dropped your voice to a whisper and you say in a slower cadence: “Begin. . . .” This approach still socializes efficient use of time by getting students started right away and as a group, but your slower and quieter delivery of the start cue can communicate something about the tone of reflection you