author we've read this semester?" In fact, the opposite is often true. The specificity of a good teacher's question is just as likely, if not more so, to result in rigorous thinking as a student's merely adding whatever was on her mind. (It may be helpful to state the obvious here that, of course, teachers will likely be more ready to respond with this kind of directive prompting if they've planned out the target response they are looking for, as discussed in technique 1, *Exemplar Planning*.) Answers that are left open to chance are, well, open to chance, which can mean high-or low-quality answers, answers that are relevant and useful for classmates to reflect on, and answers that are meandering or derail the class's progress toward an understanding.

Given the trade-offs between directive and nondirective forms of *Stretch It*, the best approach is probably to seek balance, in two ways: by using both directive and nondirective prompts or by combining the aspects of both approaches in semi-directive prompts. To do that, a teacher might use the “Say more” prompt, for example, but direct it to a specific part of the answer that she thought was most worthy of follow-up.

Let's say I ask my students how Jonas is feeling during a section of *The Giver* where he is experiencing both horrible and pleasurable feelings for the first time. A student replies, “Jonas is confused and feeling scared. He never felt any of this before, and he feels isolated.” One solution would be to say, “Tell me more about his confusion” or “Tell me more about why he feels isolated.” Now I'm giving my student significant autonomy, but still helping her see where the most productive part of her observation might be. This would be a semidirective prompt.

***

As you're probably starting to recognize, you could put a variety of *Stretch Its* on a spectrum to reflect their degree