**Nelson:** Repetition and shifts in audience.

**Teacher:** Good, and Tina, what should you do when you see examples of repetition?

**Tina:** Box them in the text.

**Teacher:** Yup. Nice. And Gary, is this partner work or independent work?

**Gary:** First by ourselves, then, after five minutes, work with a partner.

**Teacher:** Perfect. Off you go.

It would be so easy to have some portion of the class set off earnestly but do the wrong task! Ten minutes spent on a task for thirty students is *five hours of learning time* allocated with a single set of directions! Replacing “Everyone understand what we're doing?” with targeted questions is a smart investment.

It’s crucial to remember that the goal of targeted questions isn’t to be comprehensive but to create a small data sample where previously no data existed. It’s often better to be quick and bring data to multiple places in your lesson than to be comprehensive and exhaustive, but assess infrequently.

You might be wondering if this means you’re doing something wrong if you still occasionally ask students, “Got it?” or “Everybody clear on that?” Don’t worry. There’s no reason to be absolutist; you will almost assuredly say those phrases sometimes (I know I do); it’s almost impossible to root out familiar rhetorical habits and if you did, the self-consciousness it requires might be a distraction. It’s just important to recognize *how often* we use self-report and how much of an illusion it creates. When you use such phrases you are telling yourself: *I have reached a natural transition point where I should check in with students and*