so students know what to expect. For example, “Let’s do a little vocab bingo” saves the time you’d need to explain a new procedure or activity. They can live in a real pocket (on a set of note cards) or a metaphorical one. Plan the questions both periodically (every three weeks or so) and in advance, so that they are aligned to key objectives for your current unit. I also know teachers who keep a mental list of good topics for Q&A among mastered skills, enabling them to strategically spiral in practice and ensure retention of mastered content. You can always review key vocabulary, just as you can always ask students to put historical events in chronological order or put events from a novel in sequence.

Without any props at all, you can always ask “math chains”—sequential math problems such as “Three times six. Now doubled. Take that number’s square root. Subtract seventeen and take the absolute value. Add 104. Your answer is?” My colleague Paul Powell did this daily when he started a school—Troy Prep in Troy, New York—in a building whose layout had students regularly waiting for others to clear tiny landings and passageways before they could move between classes. There on the landings and stairs, with Paul calling problems to students a dozen stairs above or a dozen below, his students mastered hours of math—ultimately resulting in some of the highest math scores in New York State.

**Notes**

1. https://www.theguardian.com/science/2015/jan/18/modern-world-bad-for-brain-daniel-j-levitin-organized-mind-information-overload.
2. Daniel J. Levitin, The Organized Mind: Thinking Straight in the Age of Information Overload. Quoted in