might put a star on your page if I'm going to call on you.  
And there's also *Cold Call*, which is another opportunity for me to vary the voices in the room because sometimes I know that you know the material, maybe you're just shy, maybe you need a push, maybe you don't know that you know. We talk about that [when I roll out *Cold Call*] and they feel excited for the most part.”  

The last thing that can help make *Cold Call* feel natural and predictable in your classroom is practice—your own. An awkward and hesitant lead-in to the *Cold Calling* by the teacher makes students awkward and hesitant. Denarius and Na’Jee’s *Cold Calling* seems natural, seamless, and conversational in part because they've done it a lot, but rehearsing a few times before class can help when you're just starting out. It's especially helpful to practice the first *Cold Call* or two—that's the one where you're most likely to pause or hesitate or suddenly change course. And since your working memory will likely be under intense pressure the first time you try it, practice smiling warmly when you rehearse—this will make it more likely that it comes off positively the first few times you try.  

## Principle 3: *Cold Call* Should Feel Universal  

Teachers who use *Cold Call* take pains to make it clear that *Cold Calls* are universal. They come, without fail, to everyone and are not an effort to single out students for lack of attentiveness, in response to specific behaviors, or according to some other hidden calculus. You can see this clearly in Denarius's class. He *Cold Calls* seven students—enough to make it clear that anyone might be called, not just particular individuals or groups of students. This is typical. He tends to *Cold Call* in batches so that it doesn’t appear as though one person is “in the teacher's sights.” And he's careful to *Cold Call* all types of students—not just those whose attention might be questioned, say, or who are