Notice some of the similarities in Darren and Sadie's technique. They both stand in the doorway where they can control the flow of students into the room, even though Sadie's students arrive episodically and don't line up outside the door. She takes the opportunity to both set a warm, gracious tone and remind students in simple ways that when they enter the classroom the expectations are different, elevated—what we do here matters deeply. Great teachers often combine these minor resets and reminders with warm and gracious, “I see you” moments—“Love the new glasses,” “Good to see you,” “How'd the debate go?”—seizing on many opportunities to use students' names. All of this builds relationships by making students feel “known” (part of the *safe, successful, and known* recipe my colleague Dan Cotton framed).

Trona (*Trona Cenac: It's Gonna Be Fine*) is greeting her students at the beginning of the year. They've had various adventures and have much to tell her. There's excitement and good feeling, but she also channels this into the first tasks. The message is: *It's great to see you; I care about you and also, we have a lot to do and here's how to get started.* She's a little more explicit about the daily expectations because it's early in the year. Like Darren and Sadie, she's at the narrow point in the threshold so she can control the flow into the classroom. And Trona makes sure she can maintain her vision of the classroom as well as the hallway as students enter. You'll notice how much of the work she does outside the room. If you can do this, it's smart, because habits are powerful. It means that the classroom is your space and students never see it in any way other than as you wish it. Therefore the process of entering and shifting slightly in demeanor becomes a matter of habit.

Steve Chiger applies similar ideas (*Steve Chiger: Knowing What to Do*). He greets students warmly but simply by