High School in Greensboro, North Carolina, in which she guides her students through the process of creating a written record of the day's learning. As the clip opens, Sadie instructs her students to get a page set up for note-taking. She is clearly modeling and practicing a *method* of note-taking as much as she's seeking to help them master the details of the day's lesson: “You are writing at the top ‘Unit 2: Matter,’” she says. “Today's lesson is lesson 14: *Combined Gas Law*.” The system—with references to units and sequences of lessons—is implicit in the set-up.

After guiding the students through several practice problems, Sadie says, “We're going to write that into our notebook.” Notice the ‘we’ language here and throughout—the clip reminds students: *What I am doing at the board, you are doing at your desk—all of us are doing this together*. You can also see Sadie reach for her own version of a notebook and place it under the LCD projector. She's completing a “worked example”: a high-quality model completed live in front of students in which she comments on the process as she completes it. She models and describes at the same time. It's not trivial that she keeps her own version of a student notebook. At the end she'll have a record of what they have in their notebooks, which Sadie reflects comes in handy to help with absences, lost notebooks, and students in need of study tips. And having a consistent place to take notes is part of the system. She's modeling that, too.

Sadie's pace is stately. “So we'll write P1V1 over T1,” she says, and then leaves a few seconds for students to get that down. “It used to drive me crazy when a teacher said *write this down* but then was already talking about something else when I was trying to do just that,” recalled my colleague John Costello as we screened this video at our offices. “But she goes slowly. There's time to do what she asks.” In part that's because she is making actual notes live