believe them capable of, and in so doing to believe themselves capable of excellence.

You can see that dynamic—personal warmth and high expectations for the quality and correctness of answers combining to express an ardent belief in what a student is capable of—in the video *Emily Badillo: Traitor*, which shows Emily's fourth-grade classroom at Excellence Girls Charter School in Brooklyn. After a student, Chassity, offers a convoluted (if earnest) response to her initial question, Emily explains with patience and emotional constancy what the question was asking and offers Chassity a moment to get her thoughts together. Chassity, perhaps feeling Emily's belief in her, does not give up and her hand is soon back in the air. Emily does not forget her. “Back to you, Chas,” she says lovingly, but again Chassity struggles. There's lots of thinking there, but not yet a right answer. “Eyes here,” Emily instructs the class, drawing attention away from Chassity for a moment to ease any tension she might feel. She then explains what the question is asking for, making the presumption that if Chassity is unclear, others in the room are likely to be as well. She wants a description of the change from one opinion to another among the soldiers. This time she gets an excellent answer from a classmate, but Emily still wants Chassity to get it right. And she wants Chassity to believe she can get it right. So she goes back to her. Chassity again struggles to focus on the question, so Emily steps in, again with warmth and care, to help her focus on the question as she begins framing her response with a sentence starter.

At this point Chassity's answer is dramatically improved. That's the good news. But it's still not right. And Emily thinks Chassity can get all the way there. So where most teachers would pull the ripcord and says “Great work, Chassity,” or round up and say, “What Chassity means is...,” Emily tells her, “You are so close. Add in your ... keyword