she said. Students immediately began discussing in pairs, and Sadie listened in on a conversation at the front table.

As the energy of discussion showed its first signs of ebbing, she paused the class and *Cold Called* one student then another to explain the answer. After a succinct and well-stated response (complete with “shine” for both students from their peers), Sadie moved on to a new question. Students shared once again with their partners.

Students then quickly took out their notebooks for notes on a new topic: the Combined Gas Law.

The rest of the lesson was of a piece. Students constantly engaged in rigorous thinking in a variety of formats: taking notes, chatting with a partner, answering questions from Sadie as she checked for understanding. The activities changed with some frequency but tasks were always clear, and always clearly distinguishable from the task before. There was energy and momentum: change and novelty in how students engaged, but consistent focus on the lesson topic.

The psychologist Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi coined the term “flow” to refer to a mental state in which a person performing an activity is so immersed in it that they begin to lose their sense of time. We've all had that happen: You look up and suddenly class (or practice or rehearsal) is almost over. You'd thought it had just begun! Flow states happen most often when people are highly absorbed in a task that involves a significant degree of ongoing mental stimulation. Discussions of the theory of flow often note the happiness it brings participants. To lose yourself in the work of some task is not just productive, it's gratifying.

This offers a reminder that people mostly want to be positively and productively engaged, and that students are often frustrated when they enter a classroom and realize it