basketball player Steph Curry getting feedback from all-world basketball coach Steve Kerr.

The interaction (you can watch it here: https://www.coachsguidetoteaching.com/; scroll down through about 12 videos) takes place on the bench as Kerr shows Curry a set of data about his performance in the game so far. Uncharacteristically, Curry is having a rough night—or at least a less-brilliant-than-usual night.

But Kerr wants Curry to be aware of the things he is doing right, so he will persist in doing them. In the long run, they will cause Curry and the team to succeed. One of the most important things a coach can do is to help players attend to the signal (what's important to success) and not the noise (all the other things that distract us from what's important). What are the actions that will cause me to be successful over the long run, regardless of the outcome of this single moment?

That's what Kerr does in the video. He's helping Curry—yes, even Steph Curry—see the signal: when he is on the floor and plays up-tempo, great things that he is not fully aware of are happening and will continue to happen. The goal of the praise is not to make Curry feel better and build his confidence—Curry has plenty of that. The goal is to help him know what to replicate. That is in many ways the greatest power of praise.

One of the keys to helping students succeed is giving them **accurate attributions**, to “regularly point out the causes of pupil success and failure [and] help them see how effort and approach make a difference,” in Mccrea's words. Kerr is helping Curry make an accurate attribution. Play up-tempo—replicate what you are doing in that aspect of your game—and you will succeed. As indeed Curry did, being crowned NBA champion later that year.