The subsequent discussion too crackled to life. “Within moments, students were deeply analyzing the impact a scar discussed in the text had on Walker in light of her gender, moving from her specific experience to a message about society at large. By asking students for their *reflections*, the question invited students to share all thoughts and suggested a validity in a variety of responses. This encouraged them and prepared them to take the risks.”

Formative questions made writing a “low-risk adventure” in which students “didn't always have to have a final argument about the theme to discuss the story.” You can see this play out in the video *Arielle Hoo: Keystone*. Arielle asks her students to write their “conjectures” to start their reflection on a problem. She is suggesting, “We're just thinking and experimenting with ideas at this point.” She says *go* and the class springs into action.

Ironically, students are more likely to have a strong final argument about the theme if they'd had time to wrestle with the idea formatively first. In other words, the argument isn't that formative writing is “better” than summative writing, because it isn't. Both are important and students need to be able to do both. Rather, the argument is that formative writing is *also* necessary—if more likely to be overlooked—and that the two types of writing are synergistic in a dozen ways. For example, formative writing helps students engage in and care about the text so that they feel more vested in any argument they then decide to defend or explain in summative writing … which in turn helps them to understand what things they should seek to understand or figure out through formative writing.

One other key aspect of the writing prompts used in *Everybody Writes*: they occur and reoccur, midstream and throughout in the lesson, while ideas are fresh. Teachers often call their *Everybody Writes* prompts “Stop and Jots”