traits—he *doesn't care*—instead of a person who might care deeply in a different context. We think insufficiently about environment—*how do I create conditions that make him want to care?*—and underestimate how people respond to cues and norms. At times those norms are practically shouting at us and yet we somehow cannot seem to hear them at all.

Yet another field of study that has been influential to me in writing this book is evolutionary biology, the net of which is that the humans who won out in the struggle for evolution won by coordinating in groups and have evolved to be exceptionally responsive to what is required for inclusion in the group—it is of the highest importance from an evolutionary point of view. We are creatures of culture first, supremely responsive to social norms, and every young person deserves to step into a classroom where social norms are as positive and constructive as possible.

Let me explain what I mean by describing a moment in the life of a student. We'll call her Asha. She is sitting in Biology class and has just had an idea. It's half developed—a notion still—but she wonders if she has thought of something that others have not. *Maybe this is something smart*. She's a bit scared to share what she's thinking. Her idea could be wrong or, just as bad, obvious already to everyone else. Maybe no one else cares much about DNA recombination and the fire it has suddenly lit in her mind. Maybe saying something earnest about DNA recombination makes you *that kid*—the one who raises her hand too often, who tries too hard, who breaks the social code. These sorts of thoughts have heretofore led her to adhere to a philosophy that counsels *Keep it to yourself; don't let anyone see your intellect; take no risks; fit in*. But somehow in this moment the desire to voice her thought overcomes her anxiety. She raises her hand and her teacher calls on her.