David called this a “reset” and it worked in some cases, but in others it was less helpful because the teacher didn't always see off-task behaviors. So David changed his guidance to emphasize making expectations visible.

“I want you to choose an especially visible direction. Something you know students will know you can see them do. Substitute ‘Pencils down and eyes on me’ for ‘Eyes on me,’ for example, and then look for that as you scan.”

The results were dramatic. Students putting their pencils down were ten times more visible to the teacher than was fleeting and hard-to-gauge eye contact. It was easier to see who was following through as asked. Not only that, but students sensed the increased clarity implicit in the new directions.

It was evident to them that it would be obvious to the teacher whether they followed through. There were a few challenging kids in the group but there was a far larger number of students who had begun to sense that not doing as the teacher asked was a bit of a game in this classroom—a challenge to see if they could not do as the teacher asked without him noticing. Soon, playing that game had become a norm. There were games the kids played at recess and to play them was to be in the club. A version of that had started to emerge in the classroom, too.

But suddenly, with the gray era eliminated, a larger number of students who had not been following through consistently began to change their behavior. The norm suddenly shifted. The challenging kids were still there but suddenly they were few and far between. There had been one or two bold rebels who induced those around them to follow them in testing the teacher but suddenly the rebels had no followers. It was a case study in the Heath Brothers' observation that the size of the problem does necessarily correlate with the size of the solution.