years and still have not fully arrived at an opinion about. I hereby propose that the ability to think without deciding too early is a very good thing intellectually. A formative prompt lets you start with maybe. *Maybe one reason is ...*

A few years ago, we discussed the idea of formative writing with Ashley LaGrassa, then an eighth-grade English teacher at Rochester Prep in Rochester, New York, and she decided to give it a try. After all, eighth grade might be one of the toughest years for getting students to open up in writing.

> “The idea that a simple change of format might make my classroom feel safer for students, leading them to take risks and engage more deeply, was too alluring to pass up,” Ashley said, “and the result was one of the most joyful lessons of the year. My eighth graders jumped in to wrestle with challenging questions, pregnant with the possibility of multiple ‘right’ answers.” Afterwards she reflected on what worked and why.

The lesson focused on Alice Walker's “Beauty: When the Other-Dancer Is the Self” and began with formative writing as part of the *Do Now*: “How might Alice Walker's experiences have influenced her writing?”

> “My hope in including the word ‘might’ was to help students feel safe jumping in with thoughts rather than comprehensive answers,” she said. Students jumped in and she was happily surprised to see “twice as many hands as usual” offering to share their answers. On a later question, *Reflect on the role of gender in Walker's experience*, she again found that “students went right to work. There was no flipping through the packet or rewriting of the question to pass time. Students began quickly jotting down their thoughts; seemingly, the sense of possibility within the question made students feel more comfortable with risk.”