immensely. But the assertion that no teaching can happen until a relationship exists is inaccurate,^19 in part because teaching well is the most effective way to show a student that you care and to establish a relationship with them in the first place.

Recognizing that relationships matter is the easy part, in other words. The difficult questions are: what kinds of relationships—and relationship-building actions—are most helpful? Is the aphorism about students knowing you care a rationale for any and all relationship-building actions? Some students might be quite happy if you were to show up at their dance recital or stop them to chat about their home life in the hallway. Others might find this strange and even invasive. This should remind us that we can understand that relationships are important and still take steps to develop them that are counterproductive.

So, while still affirming the deep importance of relationships, here are some important observations about how to seek them most productively.

First, we are teachers to our students. We seek a specific kind of relationship that is unique to our role. Those relationships “are based on trust,” ResearchEd founder Tom Bennett wrote recently. “Trust is best built in safe calm ordered environments where adults can be relied upon to be dependable. Trust is built on predictability of action and character,” Bennett noted.^20 Being reliable, humane, and consistent is the center of relationships. But learners also must feel that the environment in which they learn communicates these things. When a student talks about her relationship with Ms. Smith she in some ways means Ms. Smith's classroom. She will not come to trust Ms. Smith if Ms. Smith allows her to be subtly mocked by peers when she speaks, or if Ms. Smith is unable or uninterested in making sure the time spent in her