enough that word and his praise more generally become less meaningful. When everything is awesome, nothing is.

Which isn't to say praise isn't profoundly important and motivating. It is. But that's all the more reason to preserve its value.

So the key is often not to praise more. Rather, aspire to give a range of useful and honest feedback and guidance that includes both praise and critical or corrective feedback, but do so positively, *in a manner that motivates, inspires, and communicates our belief in our students' capacity*.

Using *Positive Framing* allows you to give all kinds of feedback, as required by the situation, while keeping culture strong and students motivated. Doubly so for redirections—moments when we say to a student, “Do that differently.” If those moments remind the person you're talking to that you want them to be successful and that you believe in and trust their intentions, students will trust you more and be motivated to follow your guidance.

*Positive Framing*, then, is the technique of framing interactions—particularly academic or behavioral redirections—so that they reinforce a larger picture of faith and trust, even while you remind students of a better course of action.

Next are six rules of thumb to follow. As you read about them, be sure to check out the classroom examples in the video Montage: *Positive Framing*.

## Assume the Best

One of the most pervasive tendencies in human psychology is the *Fundamental Attribution Error*—the idea that, when in doubt, we tend to attribute another person's actions to