That's a key realization: we are always influencing motivation. The moment when we have a good long talk with students about effort and motivation may help, but less probably than the daily habits students fall into, the pervasive influence of what those around them do, and the compounded effect of a thousand small interactions we have with them when our minds are on something else.

One of the requirements of motivation—particularly for those students who begin with a skeptical attitude—is trust. Students have to come to believe in the endeavor of school and, as a result, be willing to try. I say that trust is a requirement but not a prerequisite of motivation because building trust can take time. It has to happen eventually for teaching to take hold. That does not mean it has to be there for you to start. Trust can take a long time—longer than you have before you start teaching. Happily, teaching well is one of the primary ways trust is built.

My colleague Dan Cotton framed for our team a model for how trust is built that continues to be meaningful for us. To feel trust, students have to feel safe, successful, and known.

Feeling *safe* means being physically safe—students can't feel at risk of being bullied or threatened—but also psychologically safe—it has to be OK to try, to be wrong, to take risks. There can never be snickers for trying and failing or, worse, for trying at all. As Zaretta Hammond writes, “Neuroscience tells us the brain feels safest and most relaxed when we are connected to others we trust to treat us well.” If we truly want our students to be prepared for the transformative experience of learning, then we must establish for them that the classroom is a place in which they belong and will be respected.

Feeling *known* refers to having a sense of belonging and importance. Students have to feel like their teacher—and