Finally, it's important—and often difficult—to remember that *Right Is Right* is a technique you use when an answer is mostly right rather than when it's just plain wrong. When you encounter a fully wrong answer, you'll want to use more of the techniques described in *No Opt Out*. Affirming a fully wrong answer as partially correct may only lead to additional confusion (and potentially consume more class time).

## Beyond Holding Out: More Versions of *Right Is Right*

Imagine a typical student in your classroom. You've called on her to explain Shakespeare's use of light and dark imagery in *Romeo and Juliet*, and she gamely gives it her best shot. While she's done the reading, you can tell as she begins her response that she's not exactly sure where she's going (and might be hoping to find her way onto more solid ground as she shares). Eager to please, this student may inadvertently reach into a bag of tricks many well-intentioned students before her have discovered. They include:

### The Kitchen Sink:

Sometimes students who are confused or unsure will simply start talking and say everything they can think of about the topic. The right answer might be in there somewhere, but so is a lot of other stuff and it's not at all clear that they know which is wheat and which is chaff. We should recognize that such “kitchen sink” answers require us to ask students to narrow in on the most important ideas. “Let me pause you for a second because you've said a lot there. Which part of what you said best answers the question?”

### Bait and Switch:

Students may at times choose to answer the question they *wished* they'd been asked