—reliably, over and over—requires consistency and attention to detail to establish.

I want to pause here and underscore the role of silence in *Silent Solo*. It’s not just writing but *quiet writing* that’s the necessary routine. For some, that’s a tough sell. Your vision of an ideal class might be characterized by boisterous discussion or passionate debate. However, providing time for focused, thoughtful reflection (typically prior to that full-voiced discussion or debate) gives all students a moment to gather their ideas, to listen to their own inner voice, and capture elusive ideas that only yield when you stick with them. Silence is necessary to the deepest reflection.1 Students deserve to experience it—doubly so in a screen-filled world where exactly that sustained, uninterrupted reflection is so rare. They may not get the opportunity anywhere else.

The time your students spend with their pencils transcribing the reflections of a quiet mind will build their ability to sustain focus and likely result in their best thinking. The resulting discussion will ironically be more likely to crackle with life if you allow it to be preceded by thoughtful silence.

You can see the power of the system at work in the video *Montage: Silent Solo*.

Within seconds of Hasan Clayton’s prompt “eyes in,” every student is at work, reflecting thoughtfully in writing on Hasan’s question. They start on cue and sustain this for four solid minutes. Four minutes of sustained reflection in a world where attention is increasingly fractured and interrupted by technology is a profound thing.

At the drop of a hat, Tamesha McGuire’s first graders are off and writing too, reflecting on the strategies they used to make sets of ten. Compare this to a typical classroom