saying, “Lots of people are making this mistake.” Ironically, the “take” is often smoother if it’s simpler. Rousseau, like Denarius and Paul, uses an “unnarrated take.” He does not ask permission. It’s important to note that he can do this because, in his classroom, *Show Calling* is an established procedure that students understand clearly. And because a *Culture of Error* is intact, an unnarrated take won’t work without those things in place. Another important difference between the clips is what happens afterwards. Rousseau asks students to revise their answers. Rose asks students to apply the same method to parts B and C of the problem. Two slightly different applications of an idea we also saw in Ijeoma’s *Show Call*, which ended with the phrase “Make sure you have this written on your paper.” The message in all three cases is: *We just spent a lot of time learning something important; make sure you have it down.* This foreshadows technique 14, *Own and Track*.

*Show Call* can also help students to see and understand their mistakes by showing the solution rather than the error. You can see Sarah Wright do the first of those in the video *Sarah Wright: Show Call Discussion*. In her study of the novel *Esperanza Rising*, her reveal explains the purpose of her *Show Call*: “We are going to *Show Call* some students’ work, have them explain their work a little bit, and then you’ll be able to add to your paper.” She’s *Show Called* some of the strongest pieces of work in the room; she wants the rest of the class to take notes on the gaps between their own work and these examples. Multiple times she returns to Trey’s paper to point out what’s excellent about it. She uses Trey’s observations, perhaps the strongest in the class, to start a conversation in which students expand and elaborate on his ideas. What they ultimately write down is Trey’s answer plus the class’s further reflections on the best-written ideas that emerged.