interrupting your teaching, listening, or observing. When you do this, you can create a climate of loving accountability.

Loving accountability means, for example, that when students are writing short responses they can predict that at some point you will glance encouragingly over their shoulder—but also that you will see whether they are doing their best work. Loving accountability means students not taking out their smartphones, in part because you have asked but in part because there is a plausible chance they'd look up from a secretive glance at their messages to find you standing there.

If moving between any two points requires the shuffling and dragging aside of backpacks or the moving of multiple chairs, you have already ceded ownership of the room. If you have to say “excuse me” to get around chairs and backpacks and desks to reach the back corner, you are asking for student permission—or interrupting their work—to stand in that space. This means there will be places safely insulated from loving accountability.

Ensure your full access in the room by keeping passageways wide and clear. Find a place for backpacks that does not impede your movement, for example, and consider seating your students in pairs rather than long arcs or rows so that you can stand directly next to anyone at any time.

**Engage When You Circulate**

It’s good to be proximate and present everywhere in the room, but it’s better if you work the room a bit. If you're actively teaching, make frequent verbal and nonverbal interventions (a smile; a hand subtly on a shoulder; “Check your spelling” to a student as you gaze at her notes). If