that.”

“I'm seeing people going back to the chapter to see if they can find the scene. That seems like a great idea.”

“I'm hoping someone will be able to connect this scene to another play, ideally *Macbeth*.”

“I'm going to give everyone lots of time because this question is tricky. Your first answer may not be the best.”

It's an assumption that students know they can and should do things like this in the brief periods of time you provide for thinking, in other words. In each of these cases, the teacher is explaining things that, as expert learners, we know are productive actions. They can be pragmatic—to jot down ideas, check your notes, or glance back through the text—or more abstract: to think about broader connections or to double-check your first thought. Knowing how to use such actions starts with being aware of them.

About a minute into the video *Akilah Bond: Keystone*, Akilah asks, “How did Cam help Eric find the note?” She reminds a few students to put their hands down to ensure that they use their Wait Time and then, pointing to the notes of the class' earlier discussion, notes, “Imani's looking at what we know about the characters. Nice move.” The purpose of the notes is to reinforce students’ memory of key moments in the story. Just the kind of thing that's obvious to adults but not to second graders, perhaps, so Akilah is reinforcing that it's the ideal thing to review to help their thinking. Between that and reminding them to put their hands down and take their time, she's teaching them how to use Wait Time when they get it.

### Step 3: Make Wait Time Transparent