1. TLAC purists will notice the change in name of this technique from *Name the Steps* to *Take the Steps*. The core idea is breaking complex tasks up into discrete steps and teaching and practicing them. I've de-emphasized the naming part. The naming can be useful but it can also lead to an excessive focus on a resulting acronym—that is, you fall in love with your acronym and then don't retire it when students are ready.

2. Birch and Bloom coined this term in a 2007 paper *“The curse of knowledge in reasoning about false beliefs.”* I am partial to Greg Ashman's treatment of it in *The Power of Explicit Teaching and Direct Instruction*.

3. In a study of how physicists studied complex problems, Chi, Glaser, and Feltovich found that experts see deep principles when novices see superficial features.

4. On January 30, 2021. Thank you to the lovely and insightful people who shared their thoughts. It's reassuring to know there remain corners of sanity, goodness, and community on social media.

5. I used this term in *TLAC 1.0* to refer to engaging exercises to win students' interest at the outset of a lesson or unit.

6. The addition of excess and extraneous details, notes the ghost of Hemingway, does not make an essay better.

7. *Show Call* (technique 13) is an ideal tool for this.

8. *“Mysterious Houses”* by Victoria Taylor-Gore.

9. There's a fair amount of research emerging about how to present material in notes so that it's most effective for students and maximizes their working memory. Diagrams are included, for example, but only carefully made with short explanatory notes and very limited extraneous