There's one final benefit to planning for error. If you practice anticipating what students will struggle with during your planning, you are also internalizing the assumption that *there will be misunderstanding and mistakes*. There is a presumption now of their inevitability, which means you are far less likely to get frustrated with students when mistakes emerge. You're less likely to blame learning gaps on students or see their struggles as signs of some flaw. When errors are inevitable and the challenge is predicting and reacting to them teaching becomes a problem-solving challenge more than a question of assigning blame, and this will help to preserve students’ trust in you.

## TECHNIQUE 3: DELIVERY MOVES

There is a constellation of things a typical teacher does to adapt a lesson and bring it to life for a certain group of students on a certain day. The adaptations are made in response to a variety of factors: the differences between third and fifth period (each class having its own slightly unique personality and group dynamic) or the mood on a Wednesday in October versus the last day before spring break, or how yesterday's lesson went. These actions prepare teachers to deliver a lesson uniquely and responsively to each class.

The first is Means of Participation (MOP) planning. MOP, as I discuss in technique 36, is choosing not just what question you will ask but also how you will ask students to answer that question—and then clearly communicating that expectation back to them. The lesson plan tells you the question, but how it's asked and answered—via *Turn and Talk* and/or a *Cold Call*; with *Wait Time*, or via *Everybody Writes*—is just as important. The best question in the world can still not “work” from a learning perspective if everyone