the ideas expressed in those statements don't matter very much. And it's hard to make listening well an expectation unless speakers are audible. If it matters enough to say in class, it matters that everyone can hear it.

Perhaps the most effective way to reinforce the expectation of audibility is with a quick, crisp reminder that creates the minimum distraction from the business of class. Christine uses the phrase *loud and proud*. She's consistent and her implementation shows clearly her respect for students. You can hear this in the additional reinforcement Christine occasionally gives. She is warm, supportive, and occasionally playful, but always insistent on excellence:

> To Mark: “Go for it. Loud and proud. Boom it.”

> To Jasmine: “Louder, you got this, girl.”

> To Didi: “Loud, girl!”

> To Jovon: “Louder and prouder, 'cuz you got this.”

> Again to Jovon: “Pause. Jovon. You got this. Match my voice …”

There are other phrases you might use. Just make sure that what you choose is quick and consistent (always preferable to distracting or disruptive), and heed Zaretta Hammond's advice that corrections of this sort should be “instructive and actionable rather than evaluative.” You can see this over and over in Christine's class. The explicit or implicit message is: your words matter; share them with us so we can hear. “Voice” or “with voice, please” is a good simple and noninvasive option. It might work better, depending on your setting and style—“loud and proud” probably wouldn't work well in a high school classroom, for example.

You can observe a further example for audible format in the video *Gabby Woolf: Keystone*. As Gabby reviews a