And so a teacher, even one ready with a box of tools she has mastered, makes decisions not only about which tool to use, but how. A dearth of hands? You could Cold Call, but you could also *Turn and Talk*, or use a quick low-stakes writing prompt—a *Stop and Jot*. Your tone could be whimsical: "Usually I can't keep you guys from a conversation about *The Giver*. Has something terrible happened to the Kardashians and I'm the last to know?”² You could go philosophical: “Yes, it's a hard question. Who will be brave enough to answer it?” You could be blunt: “I need to see more hands.” You could say nothing.

In a typical lesson you decide, often quickly. Then you decide, decide, and decide again. You are a batter facing a hundred pitches in a row—a comparison I will return to in a moment, but first it's worth asking: What do you need to decide quickly, reliably, and well, while thinking about other things and often under a bit of pressure in the form of, say, twenty-nine restless students, twenty-five minutes' worth of work left to get done, and a ticking clock to remind you that you have fifteen minutes left in the class period?

Cognitive science would tell that having a strong mental model is critical. In this case that means having a clear conception of what the elements of a successful lesson should look like. This too, benefits from intentional language to frame the principles reliably.

## MENTAL MODELS

One evening a few years ago I watched a soccer match with a coach named Iain Munro who had played professionally for nearly twenty years in the UK and then coached for twenty more. At one point during the match he was having a bite to eat, and I was in the middle of asking him a