Note something that will become a theme. Darren is positioned at the point of entry where he can clearly see his room and also greet every student. There's no other way in, and this allows him to slow the flow into the room and if need be to remind students of elevated expectations. He does this, in fact, pausing the line briefly because it isn't tidy enough. He playfully calls it a rabble—it clearly isn't—but students fix their already productive behavior to make it even better. Joy, inclusion, and high expectations are successfully messaged.

In *Sadie McCleary: Grab One of Each*, Sadie is perhaps slightly less ebullient but no less warm, genuine, and gracious as she greets her students. There are little moments of dialogue—“Hi, N'Kaye. Nice to see you,” “Hi, Alexa,” and “I like your glasses”—and reminders about materials so everyone has what they need from the outset. “Grab one of each [there are two handouts by the door] and a calculator if you need one.” There are also minor reminders of elevated expectation: “Cell phones away, please,” she tells one student. Students take the Do Now from the basket, proceed to their desks, and start working. It's a topsy-turvy morning for Sadie because there are cameras recording the class and not everyone has signed a permission to be filmed, so during the *Threshold* she's also shuffling students around to put them in unfamiliar seats (with some out of view of the camera) but all of this goes remarkably smoothly because everyone knows what to do and because she appears at the door signaling organization and preparedness and expectation. Students feel seen and cared about but also get down to work quickly. The *Threshold* might seem like downtime, in other words, but it's not. One student lingers a little too long talking about something that's best dealt with later (“Let me come to help you with that in a second,” Sadie says). This time is actually crucial in setting expectations. It's not downtime for Sadie.