Organizers from each of your classes. It was so simple and direct. The homework was always the same, so it was easy to do. Parents quizzed children while they cooked dinner. (They often focused on just one portion of the organizer rather than trying to learn the whole thing at once.) That's why one thing you'll notice about these *Knowledge Organizers* is that they are designed with limited verbiage so that students can learn the answers by heart, and with two columns to facilitate easy self-quizzing by covering up one side.

*Knowledge Organizers* are sometimes confused with study guides, which are documents that summarize a unit of study after it is completed—often to aid in preparation for a test. That's not what a *Knowledge Organizer* does. It goes out at the beginning of a unit to ensure all students have the knowledge that will help them engage in each lesson fully.

*Knowledge Organizers* appear in the lesson preparation chapter because designing them is useful for the teacher as well. Thinking through what students will need to know to be successful in your unit has the benefit of causing you to think deeply about what they need to know and often do a bit of research. In writing a *Knowledge Organizer* you'll come to know ten times more than what you put into the organizer. In other words, it's a habit that builds your own content knowledge, and knowledge matters for teachers, too.

## Notes

1. *Culturally Responsive Education in the Classroom*, p. 70.
2. *Ibid.*, p. 66.