book. Doing so can also help us glimpse the range in types of systems you can include in your classroom.

There are three broad categories of Procedures and Routines:

1. **Academic Routines**: Help students complete tasks they engage in as part of the learning process. Elsewhere in the book you will find myriad examples of such routines. *Turn and Talk* is essentially a routine for peer-to-peer conversations. *Habits of Discussion* are a set of procedures for use and adaptation during larger discussions. *Silent Solo* is a routine for making independent writing happen smoothly and universally among students. *FASE Reading* is a tool for making a productive routine out of student oral reading. *Show Me* is a routine—or a group of routines—that allow you to check student work simply and easily. All of these live and die by the effectiveness of implementation. So, in the end, all your *Means of Participation*—*Cold Call*, *Show Call*, and *Call and Response*—work if they are predictable routines in which when you call on students, they expect you might do it, understand the spirit in which it's done, and know how to respond.

2. **Procedural Routines**: Help students manage materials and get from one place to another while maximizing efficiency. There are a dozen routines you could install to make the mundane logistics of the classroom work more smoothly: lining up at the doorway, passing out and collecting papers, moving to the carpet for little ones, getting out materials. In this chapter I'll discuss two such routines: *Threshold* and *Strong Start* for beginning class. They may seem mundane, but after reading about them I hope you will see their profound importance. But there are more elsewhere—*All Hands*, in Chapter Six, for example.