student in question. Despite the nonverbal nature of the interaction, her intervention failed the “noninvasive” test.

Last, nonverbals work best when they are consistent and limited in scope. To begin using nonverbals, I might choose the one or two most common low-level distractions in my classrooms and develop a consistent nonverbal for each. If there are only a few signals, you can use them, and your students can process them without distracting any of you from the content of the lesson. For her part, Ashley Hinton chose to use gestures to remind her students to track the speaker with their eyes (see technique 48, *Habits of Attention*) to put their hands down when a classmate was talking, and to sit attentively.

## Intervention 2: Positive Group Correction

Slightly more invasive but still with a very small footprint is *positive group correction*—a quick, verbal reminder offered to the entire group, advising them to take a specific action. Like a nonverbal intervention, a positive group correction is ideal for catching off-task behavior early. The word “positive” comes from the concept that this intervention always describes the solution (a positive) rather than the problem (a negative). “Group” refers to the fact that it's directed to the entire class as opposed to specific students. Because the goal is to be noninvasive, this form of correction tends to be very short and preserves economy of language. “Check that you're sitting up straight” (or “Check your SLANT,” if you use the acronym) is a classic. About a second, and you're back to teaching. If you need to boost the level of accountability with specific students, you might do that nonverbally at the same time; that is, you might say, “I need to see everyone writing,” while you briefly focus on an individual student who needs a bit more support with some eye contact and perhaps a slight nod of