student to provide the full correct answer. This version is useful if you try identifying the error and your student fails to self-correct.

Remember to exercise discretion. *There will be times to let the sentence be completed and not step in right away.* If you're doing work where students are expressing especially strong opinions or thoughts, you'll probably want to let them finish their thought before correcting. And there will of course be times not to step in at all.

In *Motivated Teaching*, Peps Mccrea points out the risk that good ideas can become lethal adaptations if teachers aren't careful about how they use them. Often this is true of the most important tools we have, and *Format Matters* is no exception. The most important part of the technique is tone. Students have to know that we care about them, value their ideas, and still have a responsibility to shape their communication habits. Be humane and gracious but also not apologetic. Notice that Darryl doesn't make a fuss about his decision to correct. Sometimes being matter-of-fact draws less attention to a correction and suggests its normalcy.

## Complete Sentence Format

A *notion*, a professor of mine once argued, is a fragment of an idea, an impression, belief, or opinion not yet fully formed in your mind. Only when you put it into words does it finally become an idea. Before it has been encapsulated in language, it is not fully formed. You know you feel something, but you don't yet know what it is until it becomes a string of words. “Language,” as the poet W. H. Auden put it, “is the mother, not the handmaiden of thought.”