marker to a girl named Kadheisha, who excitedly approached the front of the room to model her work on the overhead.

Ten thousand teachers have, from time immemorial, called a million students up to the board to “show their work,” and not much usually happens while one student puts said work up on the board. Twenty-nine students sit and wait for thirty seconds or a minute while the student in question completes the work they will soon review. Perhaps in some classes, three or four students put problems up on the board at once. But the rest of the group does precious little, even if told to “pay attention to what they're writing.” Twenty-nine students wasting thirty seconds are the same as one student wasting almost fifteen minutes, except that, in addition, precious amounts of momentum are also squandered reenergizing students who've lost the task.

What came next in Annette's class, though, was quietly brilliant.

While Kadheisha did her work at the board, Annette did a quick review of key terms and ideas with the rest of her students. “What quadrant are we in? Fatimah? And what do we call that line along the bottom? Sean? And which direction does the x-axis run, Shatavia?” The result was not only a productive use of time and the reinforcement of key facts during what would otherwise be downtime, but also an exercise that increased the likelihood that students would use key vocabulary words to analyze and describe Kadheisha's work.

Time, I was reminded in watching Annette's class, is water in the desert. It is a teacher's most precious resource—it is to be husbanded, guarded, and conserved. Every minute of it matters and the way we use it shows students where our priorities lie. We must work to maximize the precious moments of class we share with students to ensure we're