**Dot Round**

Recently, a colleague from the Netherlands, Carla van Doornen, shared an idea for giving feedback while circulating that I thought was fascinating: a “dot round.”

The idea is simple: you assign students independent work, and as they are working, you *Circulate* to observe. If their work contains an error, you put a dot on their paper. It is very subtle, and it's not a permanent “wrong” mark—just a reminder that there's something that needs checking. The best part is that that's *all* you do. No verbal commentary. No directions to “check again.” The idea is that the dot reminds students, subtly, to find their own mistake and, in time, encourages self-reflection and self-correction. You could then even ask students to discuss—Who got a dot and found their mistakes?

Later Rue Ratray, then of Edward Brooke Charter School in East Boston, took the idea of Dot Round and moved it a step further. Instead of using one general dot to indicate a wrong answer, Rue used three colors—green, yellow, and red—to indicate different degrees of accuracy. After *Circulating* for ten minutes or so and marking thesis statements, he would then ask several “green” students to read their work followed by several “yellow” students. This allowed students to discern subtle differences between work that was complete and work that was “almost there.” For the students receiving red dots especially (who now knew they weren't on the right track), it was helpful for them to hear models of successful answers. This adaptation “made a huge difference in their writing right away,” Rue reported, perhaps because it draws on Dylan Wiliam's observation about the benefits of models compared to rubrics and