*Teana:* I think so. I think what happens is that as the plates collide in either of the ways Jalen talked about, the pressure builds up and builds up and then suddenly there's an earthquake.

In this sequence Ms. Carrasco has used follow-on prompts—phrases that explicitly ask students to expand upon or react to the previous answer in order to build a culture of listening. Her phrases are *Can you develop that, Jalen?* and *Can you add to that, Teana?* I'm sure you can imagine others. Agree or disagree is a common one though I tend to prefer prompts that don't limit potential responses to just two. It's worth noting the difference in her follow-ons: the first, to Jalen is open ended—he can develop in whatever way he wants—but Teana's comes with guidance—please talk about the role of pressure. In either case, effective listening is reinforced and made critical to success.

## Four Purposes for Cold Call

In the previous section, I discussed principles for *how to Cold Call*, but it's also important to know *why you are Cold Calling* so you can make adaptations accordingly. I can think of at least four purposes for the technique.

### Purpose 1: Voice Equity

Let me begin by describing a *Cold Call* of my own, one you might not think of as a *Cold Call* at first but one that I hope will frame the conversation about it in a new light. I have three children and at dinner recently the discussion was dominated by my two older children. Their voices were confident. Of course, we would want to know what happened to Aijah and Jane in math class or Nilaan and Derrin at soccer practice. My littlest sat quietly at the end of the table, tracking the conversation with her eyes. Her brother and sister are five and seven years older, so