Mark says yes: She's young and vulnerable and brave in speaking up to those in power.

“Build on, Jasmine …” Christine says. This prompt reminds Jasmine to refer back to Mark's answer and contextualize her remarks accordingly. Like saying *develop* or *weigh in* or *say more*, *build on* reminds a student to both refer back to the previous comment and stay on the topic at hand, but unlike the more commonly used *agree or disagree* (or *do you agree?*) it also allows for a wider array of possible responses. Encouraging students to agree/disagree focuses them on who’s right rather than more nuanced forms of thinking. It narrows the range of potential responses.

In this case Jasmine chooses a relatively straightforward connection between her comment and Mark's: “I agree with you, Mark,” she says, “and I'd like to build on to it …” She's connected directly to Mark to show it's a discussion and indicated how her comment is related. She will be describing further evidence of Kirsty's bravery.

Next to be called on is Nate. “What do you think, Nate?” Christine says. It's a subtle reminder to situate his remark relative to Mark and Jasmine's comments.

“I respectfully disagree with you, Mark and Jasmine,” Nate begins.

Through this approach, prompts like *develop* allow Christine to remind her students to practice responding to one another with little intervention from her.

There's a certain amount of sophistication and maturity evident in a class that uses *Habits of Discussion*, but the technique is effective even with younger students. For example, Anthony in Akilah Bond's Keystone video responds to Cheyenne about halfway through by saying, “I kind of agree with you, Cheyenne,” and Michael begins to add, “What we're missing from Sonoa's response is …”