demonstrate, rather than the reverse. This defeats the whole purpose. It's much better to end on time and respond with feedback: “Looks like we didn't quite make it. Next time, we have to be faster so we can get back to the novel.”

Don't narrate follow-through after a countdown has finished. In doing so, you are describing a student who has merely done what you asked, and you risk making it sound as though you are pleading for follow-through (“Won't you please try to be like the kids who've done what I asked?”). This can undercut expectations as effectively as it can reinforce them.

Don't overnarrate students who have met your expectations. A few quick acknowledgments of those who are ready is great. Too many, and it sounds as though you're worried students won't follow through on what you've asked them to do.

## TECHNIQUE 31: EVERY MINUTE MATTERS

Respect students' time by spending every minute intentionally.

I observed one of my favorite moments in teaching—simple, humble, and powerful—early in my *Teach Like a Champion* study process when I saw Annette Riffle of North Star Academy in Newark working with her fifth-grade math students. The moment started with an utterly typical scene. Students had solved a problem on the coordinate plane independently at their desks. They'd had to plot certain points to show the outlines of a hypothetical stadium. Annette ended the independent work with a crisp, pace-accentuating clean finish—a series of claps that she gives and that students echo to bring them to attention. Then she said, “Someone come give us a stadium,” handing the