An additional way in which error analysis can go awry would be that you invest a ton of time studying mistakes and students just don't attend to it very intently. The cognitive scientists Kirshner, Sweller, and Clark point out that any lesson that does not result in a change in long-term memory has not resulted in learning. A terrific discussion is important to building understanding but hasn't achieved learning yet. Students have to remember it. Thus, the more time you invest in studying error, the more important it is to end with students having a written record of key insights, terms, and annotation. They need a record of what they've learned both to refer back to later and to build their memory as they go by, causing them to engage with the intention of remembering. These kinds of activities are part of the final CFU technique, *Own and Track*.

We will distill this *Own and Track* process down to three possible steps that teachers can encourage students to follow:

1. Lock in the “right” answer in writing.  
   Make sure at the end of your error analysis that students know what the right answer was.

2. Get “meta” (metacognitive) about wrong answers.  
   Have students take notes on why wrong answers were wrong. That's often where you spend most of your teaching time. It's immensely valuable because it's a window into students' confusion. But as we know, forgetting happens fast. They should track the learnings so they can review them later and be more likely to remember them.

3. Get “meta” about the right answers, too.  
   It's also useful to have students make notes on why correct answers were correct.