feelings must have been strong, because studying psychology years later, he tested the idea empirically and found that slower bandage removal was in fact more preferable to patients.

Ariely returned to the hospital where he had spent months in recovery and presented his findings to the nurses there but was surprised to find that even in the face of his research, nurses persisted with suboptimal treatment.

Ariely had failed to account for the psychological discomfort nurses felt as they removed bandages. Patients expressed anxiety, fear, and discomfort as nurses slowly pulled their bandages. The feeling that they might be hurting someone was bad, even if they knew rationally that they were helping, and drawing those moments out made it even worse for the nurses.

Turns out that for caregivers, the psychological aspects of administering treatment—even clearly beneficial treatment—is a significant factor in determining the care they provide. I’m going to call this the Band-Aid Paradox. Caregivers’ anxiety about treatment can cause them to choose a suboptimal form of treatment and explain it via an argument apparently grounded in patients’ interest.

A similar Band-Aid Paradox influences practices in the field of teaching. Administering “treatments” often results in a conflict between what “feels good”—or feels safe or jibes with the practitioner’s self-concept or perceptions about equity. Doubly so when, like doctors whose self-concept is based on being a healer, our identity is intertwined with beliefs about right and wrong.

Teachers are constantly faced with challenging and difficult tasks and must contemplate the very real possibility that they will struggle or fail, publicly and in front of an unforgiving audience, as they endeavor to execute them. It