mentor? Sure, some do. These students come from every socioeconomic stratum. A few times we may meaningfully provide supplementary support for a student whose social network does not provide everything they need, but it is also easy to convince ourselves that a relationship that makes us feel important and needed is the one that most students need and this may not be the case.

So how might getting relationships right play out in the classroom? Here are some initial thoughts. You will surely find more.

The first step to relationship building, I have intimated, may be the opposite of what you expect: making your classroom an orderly place where the procedures for doing everyday things are familiar and happen as if by routine. When students also have a very clear mental model of the behaviors required in a productive classroom, it will be easier for them to do those things with at most small reminders. Further, safe, successful, and known starts with safe—that is, with a learning environment where students can struggle and will never be mocked or laughed at. Young people should be able to rely on adults to provide such a setting for them to learn in, and to provide it is a form of caring. Better for you to provide an orderly classroom where students encourage one another than to fail to do so and spend your time as the lone voice encouraging students. Further, an orderly classroom will allow you to listen to and attend to what students say and to focus on understanding each of them as a learner. Denarius's classroom is a relational place, first and foremost, because it is orderly.

Lesson planning and preparation are also critical to relationships—and again, perhaps unexpectedly so. A well-planned and well-executed lesson tells students that they matter and their learning is at the forefront. And an