she likes the “details” or the “writing style” in a peer's passage. “Great,” you can suddenly say, “let's take a look at some of the details that stand out to you,” or “Great, let's read it together and annotate some of the lines that help her create such a distinctive tone.”

Learning starts, most often, with perception, something so basic we often overlook it. Most of our brain is a system for visual perception—much of it unconscious. We look where we look out of habit, and if we learn to look in the right places, we're far more likely to be successful. Decisions almost always start with our eyes. In that sense, students are a bit like athletes. Those who see at a glance where to pass or how to block an opponent make their decisions first and foremost because they are looking for the right things and in the right places. Their eyes go to the parts of a problem where the relevant signal will appear. This is a key piece of their expertise. The more expert the decision maker, the more likely this precise looking is to happen. Or perhaps it's the other way around. The more likely a decision maker is to look at the right things, the more expert they are likely to be.12 Projecting a problem allows us to engage student's perception in the problem-solving process. In a moment, I'll show you another example of this.

*Show Call* works because there is learning power in looking: we build students' perception ability. The content that we look at together remains fixed in students' attention and engages the portions of their brains—the majority of the brain—that rely on and process visual information.

Watch how powerfully Julia Addeo leverages the idea of guided or shared perception in the video *Julia Addeo: Expand*, in which she *Show Calls* Monet's work and where Monet, interestingly, has made two different efforts to solve