think most teachers are clear on the benefits to young people when we help them learn to self-regulate as they enter society.

To return briefly to the word “strong,” however, at trainings my team and I run, our coaching often involves helping teachers not to come on so “strong” with their *Strong Voice* —to be calmer and quieter, to appear self-assured, not loud. One potential reason people might try to be more forceful in tone and body language than necessary is the name itself: something called *Strong Voice* must be about being overpowering, right?

Wrong. A composed teacher makes it more likely that students will maintain their composure, will focus on the message, and not be distracted by how it was delivered. Being more aware of your body language and tone of voice and keeping them purposeful, poised, and confident helps you and your students.

So while I toyed with the idea of renaming *Strong Voice*, I have kept it for continuity's sake—and chosen instead to add framing to help make sure the purpose is clear.

## The Six Principles of *Strong Voice*

Over the years, my team and I have had the privilege of watching hundreds of teachers who lead vibrant, rigorous, and joyful classrooms that are also productive and orderly. These two things are related. When students follow directions, teachers can make engaging and rigorous activities happen with a minimum of fuss. And teachers who provide quality lessons are more likely to get students to do as they ask. Neither of these causes the other, but attending to both helps.

The more we studied such teachers, the more we noticed patterns in what they did to ensure follow-through when