# During the Show Call: Two Key Moments

There are two especially important moments to manage during a *Show Call*: the *take*—the moment when you take a student's paper off his or her desk with the intent to project it—and the *reveal*—the moment when you show the work to the class. What you say and how you frame what you are doing are especially important at these points of inflection.

## The Take

The goal is to make the *take* feel familiar to a student. We want to remind them that *Show Call* is an everyday event and that almost everyone's work will be projected at some point. And we want *Show Call* to feel safe. Nothing bad or humiliating will happen. In many ways those things go together. A seamless “take” where the teacher calmly selects a students’ paper from their desk and says very little—perhaps offers a nod of thanks or a brief smile, or whispers “Can I borrow this?” mostly as a courtesy—communicates best the calm normalcy of *Show Call*. It suggests routine.

That said, “If the culture is built right” is a statement not to take lightly. Strong positive cultures constantly need reinforcement and reinvigoration, so mixing in a bit of positive framing is also sometimes helpful. Arielle Hoo offers a great example of that in the video *Arielle Hoo: Strong Work*. “I’m coming around to look for strong work to *Show Call*,” she says matter-of-factly, reminding students that *Show Call* is an honor. Suddenly, Ms. Hoo lingering at your desk is a sign that all is well. Then you’ll notice when she takes Tyler’s paper she looks at it admiringly but says nothing: