your midriff is probably the trick for your eighth graders.

**The Politician:** A teacher acts like an aspiring office holder who walks onstage before a big speech and points in recognition to all of her apparent friends and supporters in the audience—one over here, one over there. As a teacher, you send a similar upbeat message of “I see you all out there” when you gesture briefly to the folks in the audience who are similarly demonstrating that they are with you. The irrepressible Darren Hollingsworth models a useful version of this move in the video *Montage: Be Seen Looking* and you can see Patrick Pastore doing his version there as well —while standing in Pastore's Perch, no less.

**The QB:** A teacher moves like an NFL quarterback (QB) who, crouching behind the center, gazes quickly at the defense. Just because he's low doesn't mean he's not going to scan. Similarly, as champion teachers crouch to confer with a scholar, they flash their eyes briefly across the room, to make sure they see the field. Kathryn Orfuss isn't conferencing with a student in her clip in the video *Montage: Be Seen Looking*—she's at the overhead projector—but it gives you a good sense for how to look up and glance proactively when you're doing something else.

To summarize, not looking for follow-through after we give a direction can suggest that we don't notice or don't care whether students follow through on our directions, but doing the reverse—showing that we care that they do what we asked—is actually a very strong positive incentive for most students.