*Go to another student and ask for a cue. Return.*

“Not quite. Who can give Kayla an example of juxtaposition? And then, Kayla, I’ll ask you to tell us the definition.”

*Give a cue yourself. Return.*

“Not quite. Kayla, what if I told you that juxtaposition always involved two characters, images, or things. That help?”

If it didn't help, you might go to another student for the answer—“OK, who can give us a definition of juxtaposition?”—and then return yet again to Kayla after: “Great, now, Kayla, you tell me.” The last step might seem unnecessary, but it does several key things. It ensures that Kayla listens to the answer. By causing her to repeat it, it helps her to encode it in long-term memory, and it reduces the chances that Kayla might use “I don't know” on purpose to avoid having to answer. I'll return to this idea later.

*Give a gold standard answer. Return with “Try to tell me that back.”*

“Not quite. I'll give you what I think is the ideal definition of juxtaposition, then you try to tell me back. Juxtaposition is when an author places two unlike objects or characters in close proximity within the text to emphasize their contrast. See if you can tell me back?”

This is the least common form of *No Opt Out* (I'll discuss at least one application later), but if you do use it be sure to follow it with a *Stretch It* (*technique 17*) to give the student the chance to show that they can do more than repeat. As in, “Good. Now that you've got the definition, can you think of an example from the play?” Or, “Good, now that you've got the definition, who is Callie being juxtaposed with in the novel?” Or, to use a different example: