these notes as she teaches if she needs a quick reminder, so her working memory can stay relatively free.

Christine has also written out additional reminders to herself—the number of minutes she wants an activity to take, “back-pocket questions (BPQ)” she could use to support confused students, and, crucially, notes on how students will answer. After all, she could ask the same question of two classes but ask one to respond in writing via a *Stop and Jot* and the other to go straight to a *Turn and Talk*. These processes she goes through of marking up and preparing her lesson are different from the lesson plan—these are her handwritten, game-time adaptations to the prepared sequence of activities. Both tasks are necessary. The researching and careful crafting of lesson plans like this one take time and could not be done sustainably the night before (we know; she's using lessons as part of a pilot of the Reading Reconsidered Curriculum our team wrote) but preparation adapts that carefully crafted plan to ensure success with *this* group of students, *today*, with up-to-the minute knowledge of what the best moves will be, given the detail of how students are progressing and even what happened in class the day before. Even the best plan will not succeed without effective preparation and even great preparation of a poor plan will fall short. You need both.

And you can see the results in the video. Christine appears to be making the perfect decision to maximize the level of participation by all students over and over throughout her lesson. Christine's teaching is magical, but like every great magician there's some sleight of hand involved. Her decisions are outstanding, but she only appears to be making them on the spur of the moment. She's planned out many of them, or has narrowed the choices she'd consider, in advance. If you look at her version of the student packet, where she's done her preparation, you can see that there are both decisions (“Turn and Talk here”) and options (“If