them to fix it. In this way their learning isn't much different from what we might experience learning sports or music. Coaches and music teachers will quickly recognize that offering a critique—telling a young person that they need to face the basket or that a note needs to be played more quietly—will not be nearly as effective as giving them a chance to correct and build fluent memory of the desired outcome: “Try that again and let me see you square up to the basket before you shoot” or “Let me hear you play that again but play that last note gently.” It's the doing that builds the habit.

Building a habit also implies a fair amount of frequency and consistency in correcting, and that can be a challenge. Must you correct every single time you hear nonstandard usage? Of course not. There's a delicate balance to be struck. It may be worth skipping a correction in the middle of an especially profound thought, or at least delaying the correction until the thought is compete. Better to wait until after a student says, “We was discussing the ironic nature of a law that says it protects people by taking away their rights,” to say, “Interesting, can you start, ‘We were ... ’” than to interrupt the thought and risk its never being completed. It's hard to keep two things in working memory at once. There's always the risk that thinking about the correction can drive the sentence you sought to improve out of working memory. And certainly there are times when you'll want to be careful not to suggest that your first thought on hearing a student's heartfelt thought was: “Oh, subject-verb agreement.”

Correcting a few times early in class—before you get to the deepest thinking and when you can remind students early of the expectations—is often especially effective.

You'll also want to explain to students what you're going to do and why in advance so they understand it. That means a