Here are six general rules for teaching with *Firm, Calm Finesse*.

**Rule 1: Catch It Early**

Sometimes we want to believe that a problem, left alone, will cure itself. Most often, it persists or gets worse because we've sent the message that we'll tolerate it for a while. Eventually, we have to step in with a bigger fix, in part because the behavior has gotten more bold or disruptive, and in part because we are starting to get frustrated. Here's a phrase my team uses that teachers have often found helpful for self-reflection: If you're mad, you've waited too long. It's usually better to fix something with a tiny adjustment very early than to make a bigger intervention later. You're far more likely to correct positively and with a smile when your corrections feel like tiny adjustments to you as well as to your students.

**Rule 2: Value Purpose over Power**

The reason you correct behaviors in the classroom is that doing so leads to a vibrant, positive learning environment, student achievement, and even habits of self-discipline. Strive to make your language constantly stress that the goal is helping students learn and succeed, not reinforcing your own power. Statements like “When I ask you to sit up, I want to see you sitting up” are best avoided. “Please get this down so you're prepared for the test” or “You'll need to be on time to class so we have a full 60 minutes together” are much better. Keep corrections tight and crisp, but try to remind students (and yourself) that your high expectations are, in the end, about the students, not you.

**Rule 3: Remember That “Thank You” Is the Strongest Phrase**