“Nice job. Send Jaheem some love,” she says to the class. His classmates make a gesture of support to “shine” on him while she says with a bright smile, “I loved your explanation.” This puts a bow on the interaction but even without the praise, I suspect Jaheem knows he's done well and feels a growing, well-earned confidence. He's connected the ideas he's begun learning into something cohesive. It's a great example of what a cognitive scientist would call elaboration, which takes place during retrieval practice. Arielle prompts Jaheem to review his understanding of an idea, connecting pieces and straining slightly to describe it in a new context and with new words. This elaboration will build Jaheem's knowledge and long-term memory, along with his confidence.

You can see a similar process in the video *Michael Towne: Red Dye*, from Michael's Physics classroom. Gathered around two beakers of water, one heated and one at room temperature, Michael places drops of dye in each and gives students a brief opportunity to discuss observations with a partner. The basic observation he knows they'll make is that the dye spreads more quickly in the warmer water. “It's way faster,” you can hear one student observe. But Michael's focus is not just on a simple observation but rather a deeper understanding of what students are seeing—as becomes clear when his questioning begins.

“What do you notice happening here? Go ahead,” he says, *Cold Calling* one student.

“The dye disperses faster in the hotter water than it did in the cooler,” the student responds. As in Arielle's classroom, you can almost hear him anticipating Michael's expectations: he's careful to use technical vocabulary (disperses) and to be precise in noting that he is comparing the “faster” movement of the dye in the warmer bath than in the cooler water. A correct observation made in a