aloud. If twenty-seven students are staring into space or listening passively, the leverage is low. But if one student is reading actively and twenty-seven students are listening carefully and reading along with her, as actively engaged in the text as if they were reading independently, then the leverage is much higher. It's also worth reflecting on the ease with which a group of people can discuss a text meaningfully when they have just experienced it together. There are no reminders: *remember the scene where this or that happened?* The memory of the scene is vivid in students' minds when you say, “Let's pause here and discuss.” So a second answer to the question “What are the other students doing?” is: They are preparing to discuss. Concerns about the passivity of nonreaders are legitimate, but they're fairly easily managed by specific teacher actions, which I'll discuss in a moment.

I've also heard concerns raised that both listening and reading along at the same time will overload students' working memory—that listening will prevent reading along—or vice versa. I'm not sure there's a clear answer to that, though there's a fair amount of recent research showing that the visual and auditory channels are additive in terms of working memory.27 Still, we can't rule out this concern. That said, reading is an immensely complex task that we use to serve a wide range of outcomes in the classroom. Among other things, we want students to learn decoding and fluency and vocabulary through reading. We want them to acquire knowledge through reading and be able to acquire knowledge through further reading of complex texts in particular. We want them to persist in reading, make a habit of it, and value it all their lives. It's unrealistic to think that any single approach is going to optimize that many diverse outcomes. Reading remains to me the first among equals—the most important among all the valuable things we teach in school—and my guidance would be to