somewhere in there you manage a sip of coffee. All this happens, efficiently and smoothly, while students are busily and productively engaged. At the same time, it's a moment for students to mentally transition to your classroom. Regardless of what happened in the hallway or at the close of a prior class or at lunch, beginning with a few quiet, focused minutes can help students be ready to succeed.

An effective Do Now should meet three critical criteria to ensure that it's focused, efficient, and effective:

1. The Do Now should be in the same place every day so it becomes habit for all your students. You can write it on the board, post it on a piece of chart paper in advance, or put it on a sheet of paper you leave in a stack by the door. Wherever you put it, keep it consistent.

2. Students should be able to complete the Do Now without any direction from you, without any discussion with their classmates, and in most cases without any materials beyond what they always bring to class. So if the Do Now is to write a sentence interpreting a primary source document that is a nineteenth-century Punch cartoon, that cartoon should be copied into the Do Now materials or posted somewhere easily visible. Some teachers misunderstand the purpose of the Do Now and start by explaining to their students what to do and how to do it (for example, “OK, class, the Do Now is on the board. You'll notice that it asks you to do X and then Y. Please get started.”). This defeats the purpose of a self-managed routine to start class. If you have to give directions, it's not independent enough.

3. The activity should take about five minutes to complete and should require putting a pencil to paper. That is, there should be a written product from it. This not only makes it more rigorous and more engaging but also