manage their own lives, to grow in maturity,” writes Tom Bennett. “Students must learn to self-regulate, to restrain their own immediate desires and whims, to persevere even when they don't want to before they can learn ... independent behavior.”

Bennett's observations lead us to recognize something we often lose sight of: a just, fair, and manageable consequence is an act of caring to a student who must learn to respect and set limits and self-regulate. Of course we don't wish to make them unhappy now; but a small unhappiness now is preferable to larger disappointments later—and of course to allowing the rights and dignity of others to be trampled. To a student who is too impulsive, life may bring an array of potential challenges we would never wish them to have to struggle with. If consequences in school can help them to replace their impulsiveness with more disciplined responses, we have done students a favor. Try to express to students if and when you must give consequences that they are an act of caring.

But all this talk of consequences as an act of caring only goes so far when they backfire. And consequences are notoriously tricky. As I'm sure nearly every teacher can attest, they do not always have the intended effect. Who hasn't given a consequence that, instead of reducing a negative behavior, actually made it worse? As my team and I set out to learn from great teachers, we observed classrooms where consequences had the intended effect, not just some of the time but nearly all of the time, and these observations inform what I have dubbed Art of the Consequence.

## Principles of the Effective Consequence

Consequences, used properly, are not merely punishments with a sanitized name. Their purpose is to efficiently