like a surprising moment to choose a *Turn and Talk*. One of its best uses, I noted earlier, is to help build engagement when students are hesitant. But here it's useful for the opposite reason. When you have lots of eager hands, *Turn and Talk* can be a great way to let everyone get to talk and to minimize the *I had a great answer and didn't get to share it* frustration.

Like in BreOnna's classroom, Sarah's directions are crisp and clear with no extra words. They end in a consistent in-cue—the same as Breonna's, “Go!”—and again the room crackles to life. You can then see Sarah circulating, listening to answers, sharing her appreciation, and also perhaps deciding whom to call on.

But again, not every *Turn and Talk* looks like these. How does a teacher build this level of energy and productivity?

The first step is ensuring that students feel responsible for doing the task in front of them to the best of their ability. Once you've done that, you can begin to design the activity for maximum rigor. This “all in” attitude is achieved mostly through intentional habit-building. In the videos, neither BreOnna nor Sarah tells their students, “Be attentive; be active; do your best, and talk about the topic at hand.” Those things are understood. Students do them automatically, which means they are carefully taught and reinforced until they become routine.

## Build the Routine

A *Turn and Talk* is a recurring classroom procedure; a common means for students to engage ideas. The more frequently something recurs in the classroom, the more important to make it a routine—to map the steps of the procedure, then rehearse and repeat it until it happens smoothly and with almost no drain on working memory. You can read more in [Chapter Ten] about installing routines but