best question is to unlock last night's reading for your students.

Think about that in classroom terms. When you ask your students to write in response to something you've been reading or discussing, the more the process is established as a habit—“get out your Reader Response Journal and begin writing”—the more working memory is left over to think about the novel. You can see that play out in a sequence from Jessica Bracey's fifth-grade classroom in Newark, New Jersey, in the video *Jessica Bracey: Keystone*. Jessica says: “Tent your books. Question 87 in your Reader Response Journals. You have evidence in the text. Go!” Less than three seconds later, every pencil in the room is moving and, more importantly, every student is thinking deeply about the book. Compare that to Ms. Bracey's counterpart down the hall, Ms. Yecarb. Her classroom is the opposite of Ms. Bracey's. She thinks students get bored doing things the same way every day, so she often improvises new ways to make familiar tasks interesting. “Take a few minutes to write down your thoughts about why Maddie does what she does,” Ms. Yecarb says. “Write this down in sentences?” one student asks. “Yes,” says Ms. Yecarb. “On what?” another student asks. “Anything will do; scrap paper or your notes. Use a big purple crayon if you have one! Just try to think deeply,” Ms. Yecarb responds. “Is this OK?” asks one, holding up her notebook. “I can't find a piece of paper,” says another student. “Hey!” says a third. Her deskmate has been looking for a pencil in his backpack and has unsettled her desk.

It's not just that time has been wasted, though it clearly has. It's that continuity has been lost and focus squandered. By the time her students begin writing they will remember less about the text. Ideas that were beginning to develop a few seconds before have been driven out of working memory by the demands of getting