stretching even a very simple question, how do you keep your stretching from becoming scattershot and haphazard? How do you keep your lessons from stretching all over the map?

Your being aware of a variety of types of questions can help you push yourself to be broad and diverse in the ways you challenge your students; at the same time, some strategic focus can help you ensure that your use of *Stretch It* accomplishes important, *objective-aligned goals* in your classroom.

Regardless of the type of question, it's always useful to remember lesson objectives. Although it's good to do some “lateral” stretching (that is, into new areas), and it's good to do some reinforcement stretching (that is, to keep skills students have mastered alive by circling back to them for occasional practice), reserve *most* of your *Stretch Its* for questions that align most closely to your objectives for that day or your current unit. This will help you keep the technique focused and productive.

**TECHNIQUE 18: FORMAT MATTERS**

There is no one right way to speak a language, especially one as polyglot and complex as English. This is manifested in the fact that nearly every speaker of English is in fact a speaker of “Englishes,” using different versions of the language depending on the setting: at work versus with friends or family, for example. Let me state directly, then: there is beauty and value in everyone's voice and in all our different ways of speaking.

Yet at the same time *teachers have a special responsibility no one else in society has*. We are tasked with developing students' mastery of a *particular* English.