for actions (“You worked hard, and look!”), they become risk tolerant because they understand that the things within their control—their actions—determine results. It’s critical then to praise actions, not traits, and further to carefully identify actions that students can replicate. You are praising them in part to help them see the inside of the success machine: the more actionable the thing you reinforce, the more students can replicate their success. “Go back and look at your draft, Maria. See those cross-outs and rewrites? That’s why your final draft is so strong.” You can see this in the video *Steve Chiger: Kudos*, of North Star Academy English teacher Steve Chiger. At first Steve walks up to a student and tells her she’s done well. We pause the video here to let you reflect: What’s her takeaway? What does she conclude about her success? She knows Mr. Chiger thinks she did something great, but not what and why. Not how to do it again. Perhaps his praise made her feel good, but with so many questions maybe it doesn’t quite feel genuine.

But then it’s as if Steve recognizes this. He doubles back and answers all of those questions. The student realizes I was sharp in class because I prepped well and read carefully and made notes. I can do that again.

Suddenly the praise has taken on a whole new role. She can see the road map that was hidden before. He has helped her to see what has caused her success and what to keep doing.

## Offer Objective-Aligned Praise

I have a secret life working with coaches of sports franchises. (If you want to know more about it, you can check out my book *The Coach’s Guide to Teaching*.) In that world, one of my favorite videos to show is of all-world