want but I still won't know, so perhaps you should stop asking.

Compare that response to how Christine's students act in her lesson: the eager hands, the vibrant burst of ideas when she offers a *Turn and Talk*. Her students engage because she has leveled the playing field for them. You can see the places where her lesson plan infuses knowledge deliberately to prepare them to think deeply—the articles about rationing, the fairy tales of Hans Christian Andersen, and the description of what a trousseau is, but Christine has also prepared to feed knowledge where necessary and made thinking about gaps in knowledge part of getting ready to teach. Notice, for example:

- The sentences she's underlined in the article about rationing because they contain key background knowledge that will allow students to better analyze the book and her note to add these to the slide.
- Her notes on ensuring that students understand that “past perfect” implies that something was but no longer is, so they can think more deeply about the unspoken fact that Annemarie's sister is deceased.

*But knowledge also matters for teachers.* That's the sleeper. It is also true that we can think more deeply and creatively about our lessons if we know more about them, if we have reviewed key knowledge beforehand so that it is encoded in long-term memory. Imagine trying to teach the preceding green sky lesson based only on having read the answer and brief explanation I've provided. You certainly wouldn't teach it well or flexibly. More likely you'd teach it in a way that forestalled the likelihood of getting questions from students you couldn't answer. Your unsteady knowledge would constrain your teaching moves. You'd be reluctant to ask probing “why” questions if your answer to