she'd have likely gotten from the student whose hand went up as soon as Maggie stopped talking.

For her next question, Maggie gives almost thirteen seconds of *Wait Time*. Again, you can see students starting to raise their hands, slowly, thoughtfully. Note the girl in the front row towards the right who starts to raise her hand, puts it down, and then slowly raises it again. She's wrestling, apparently, with whether to try to join in or not. Perhaps she's wondering whether she should risk it. Perhaps she's wondering whether her answer is solid enough yet. But the extra time allows her to overcome her doubts or refine her answer. She opts in. At the same time, several students are using the time to scan the book for useful insights, a fact made evident by Maggie's narration.

A similar process plays out again in the seven seconds of *Wait Time* that Maggie offers in response to her third question: “What does Atticus say about mockingbirds again?” What's striking here are the high levels of participation, enthusiasm, and reflection among Maggie's students. They love the book, are invested in it, and so are thinking deeply. Or is it the other way around? Do they love and feel investment in the book because she's caused them to reflect deeply on it?

Implementing *Wait Time* can be challenging. It is hard to discipline yourself to allow time to pass after a question, and it takes a bit of practice. Making a habit of silently counting to three in your head or narrating your intention to wait (for example, “I'll give you a few seconds ... OK, let's see what you have to say”) can help.

Even so, there's no guarantee that students will use *Wait Time* to think. To confound the issue, it's hard to assess what students do with the time you give. It may not necessarily be apparent to students how they should respond to your waiting. What this tells us is that there are