# Online Lessons: The Remote *Do Now*

The start of a lesson is especially important online. When students are far from us and the classroom it's often doubly important to remind them of familiar routines and habits—providing comfort and continuity in a topsy-turvy world.

We loved watching Joshua Humphrey do this with his students at KIPP St. Louis High School in the video *Joshua Humphrey: Pause It Right Now*. Joshua starts his online lesson—it's asynchronous, meaning students will watch the recorded lesson later—with a *Do Now* and the phrase “just like we always do,” reminding his students of the familiar moments and habits of their in-class life. Of course he's made some adaptations too: in an asynchronous lesson he can't just leave his *Do Now* passively on the screen and assume students will complete it, so class begins with a short greeting before the *Do Now*, for example. And he has to be direct and clear about pausing the video to complete the task. But Joshua's review of his *Do Now* afterwards is instructive to both remote and in-person instruction. His tone is perfect—his emotional constancy in describing errors makes it safe to struggle. His pacing during the explanation of the answers is crisp but not rushed, and most of all he uses colored highlights to guide students' eyes through the review of right and wrong answers to help them focus on and attend to the most important things. Students learn about what they attend to. The difficulties of online learning caused us to see the value of guiding students' eyes to focus on key details, but this lesson is surely applicable everywhere.