supporting feedback. “[You're] killing it,” he tells one young man. “Keep going,” he tells a young woman. “Make sure you have the remainder and the quotient.”

“What's going on here?” he asks the next young woman, and spots the fact that her digits are not lined up. A few seats later he tells one young woman quickly, “Oh, much better, thank you,” affirming both her progress and his own awareness of the progress of her learning.

As he works, Denarius is able to assess not only the progress of individuals but also of the class. The class is dividing polynomials and the most frequent issue is lack of clarity about how to find the remainder. He pauses, presents an example to the class, guides them through an analysis of where it was effective and where it went wrong, and sends them back to their quiet, productive practice.

Every student feels seen and supported. It is evident that their teacher can and will help them succeed. It's a case study in how effective teaching builds relationships. Because Denarius is alert to gaps in understanding as they emerge, he is able to help each student, calmly and steadily, and create an environment of trust and respect. The trust, as I argued in Chapter One, is not a precondition to Denarius teaching them, but in many ways an outcome. At the very least the two develop in synergy. You teach me well and I will come to have faith in you.

This chapter is about the gap between teaching and learning: about how to see it, how to respond to it, and how to make students comfortable with the struggle it implies. It's going to be technical stuff. What should you look at and look for? How can you respond to mistakes? How can you get students to reveal misunderstandings to you willingly? But don't be fooled. The consequences of a teacher mastering such technical details are not arcane. As