throughout. Each teacher has his or her own style of teaching, and this is as it should be. Variety is beneficial; the core work of teaching can be done in a wide range of casual and formal registers. You be you.

But every teacher also needs to be able to shift, for example, into the formal from the casual or into a higher degree of formality from their everyday self in moments when, like Arielle and Denarius, they want to signal that paying attention and following through are now especially important. There are two parts to that observation: the work is done by *both* the tone *and* the shift. The discernable change in affect draws students' attention; the formal affect expresses importance once you have their attention.

You can see an especially clear and effective example of this in the video *Trona Cenac: Register Shifts*. As the video opens, Trona is chatting casually with students before the beginning of class on the first day of school at Troy Prep High School. Her body language is casual: loose and asymmetrical. You can tell from the student's use of language (“I did that packet and I was like …”) that she reads the casualness of the situation. Suddenly it's time to start class. Trona signals this in part through her voice and more upright body language. Her shoulders are back and her chin is raised. Students are quickly attentive, though, and everything is going well so she moves to the front of the group and greets students in the casual register. She's asymmetrical with a relaxed smile. Soon after there are important directions to hear. Trona emphasizes this by assuming a more formal bearing. Here's a series of still shots from the video that show the clear differences in Trona's body language from when she is casual to when she is formal.