are in small groups (for example, reading groups): We think what we're doing there is so important that we are willing to multiply the amount of resources we apply per student. If that's the case, we should use the systems that build productivity and focus too. Na’Jee is warm and welcoming with his reading group of four but he *Cold Calls* nonetheless. So do Brittney and Summer.

## Principle 4: Cold Call Intentionally

Perhaps this is the unspoken principle that supports the other four, but it is helpful to say directly: Although your *Cold Calls* may sometimes or often appear random to your students, they should usually be intentional and, often, planned before you execute. In *Chapter Two*, Lesson Structure, I discuss deciding in advance whom to call on—either specific students or categories. Your notes might say, *CC Abraham/Sasha* or *CC two quieter voices* or *circulate to CFU and CC an “almost right.”* These require you to use data—either from assessments, such as *Exit Tickets*, or from real-time observations during the lesson. Brittney Moore *Cold Calls* one of her students three or four times in the lesson we taped. She wanted to give her extra practice because, in looking at the data the night before, Brittney had noticed that this student was struggling and wanted to make sure she got lots and lots of at-bats. Sometimes you will have to make the choice of whom to call on with a tighter turnaround, after *Active Observation*, for example. Then you’ll want to use student responses to determine whom you will call on after the moment of *Everybody Writes* or *Turn and Talk*.

Most of the time when you *Cold Call* a student to contribute their thoughts to the conversation, you should have a decent guess of what they are going to say—or you should select them because of what you know about their patterns of academic participation, success, and struggle.