# Online Lessons: Online *Needs Flow*

Pacing draws on the principle of flow, the idea that people take pleasure in being swept up in an engaging and dynamic activity. This is a critical driver of excellence in the classroom. Online, it's necessary to stave off disaster. Students who are bored or feel no connection to the lesson can't walk out of a classroom. If they disengage you can see it—in the empty page before them or the lack of follow-through on task. Sometimes they'll make you see their disengagement via behavior. Not online. There, unengaged students will simply slip away. They'll turn off their camera if you'll let them and then goodness only knows what they're doing. Or they'll toggle off to another screen or engage themselves on their phone or some other device. They'll be playing Minecraft or be on TikTok and you'll never know they're gone.

So teaching in an online setting puts a premium on pacing—the momentum of a lesson has to draw students in right from the outset and sustain their focus. In the video *Arrianna Chopp: Means of Participation*, you can see Arrianna Chopp of Libertas Prep in Los Angeles bring pacing to her online lesson from the word go. Within seconds of starting class there's a task that everyone completes (answering in the chat). This is supported by Arrianna “narrating the chat,” that is, letting students know she sees and appreciates when they participate but also building a sense of momentum to make participation visible to other students. It's like a wave of forward momentum that she quickly translates into a mini discussion where three students in a row give their opinion. It's fast and engaging and inclusive of everyone. There's not time to get lost in the far corners