that. If *Cold Call* is an everyday thing, students will make a habit of increased attentiveness and get better and better at responding.

It’s also important to think about the converse: If your *Cold Calls* surprise students, they may learn a lesson (“Darn, I should have been ready!”), but one too late to help them. They may also feel ambushed, caught off guard, and therefore more likely to be thinking about the past (*Why did she do that?*) than about the future (*I’m going to be ready!*). A *Cold Call* should never feel like a “gotcha” to students, and to use it that way—to try to embarrass Marcus a little bit by asking, “What did I just say, Marcus?” because you don’t think he was paying attention—is to take a powerful and positive learning tool and cause it to undergo a counterproductive mutation that undermines trust between teacher and students.

You can see evidence of predictability in Denarius and Na’Jee’s classrooms—mostly in the fact that students seem so unsurprised by their *Cold Calling*. They react naturally and … well, honestly, they hardly react at all. *Cold Call* is a familiar occurrence to them. In fact there’s a bit of an equation implicit in that: the *more* it happens, the *more* *naturally* it unfolds and the *more* comfortable students become. If the response by students is so-so at first, keep at it. Make sure you’ve got the positivity, make sure your questions are good, and then persist. Over time it will become part of the fabric of your classroom and the biggest benefits will accrue when it does that.

Another way you can make *Cold Call* predictable is to make it transparent—to tell students it’s coming. For example: “Take a few minutes to work on this then I’ll *Cold Call* a few of you to hear your thoughts.” Suddenly the incentive to do one’s best work is even stronger. “Turn and Talk with your neighbor, and I’ll *Cold Call* a couple of groups to share after