minds what they want to see and hear when their students respond.

So perhaps it's not surprising that Sarah chose, with her limited preparation time on her busy morning the day of her Esperanza lesson, to review and revise her exemplars. She went back over them and made small adaptations and additions. This helped to refresh the sequence of lesson activities in her mind, caused her to review the contents of the book so it was sharper in her memory, and ensured that she had an ideal answer to refer to as she listened to her students. It also caused her to think, with the lesson that day, of who she might call on when or how she might ask students to participate (topics I cover in the technique *Delivery Moves* further on). You can add other elements to your lesson preparation—this chapter will describe several that are immensely valuable, but when you have “one of those days,” and forty-five minutes is all you get, exemplar planning is the one task to fall back on.

Sarah is an English teacher, of course, so her process of writing out exemplars reflects that. She often focuses on key words or phrases she wants her students to use or a section she wants them to refer to in the text. Were Sarah a chemistry or math teacher, her process might include showing her work, then setting up each problem in the same format expected of students for easy reference during class. But no matter the subject the key is that the *exemplar planning must be written down*. This forces you to put your thinking into words as students must. It allows you, as Sarah did, to revise and amend as other thoughts come to you, and it makes your thinking portable, which as I noted earlier can allow you to share and discuss it with colleagues during professional development. And most of all it means you can take it with you when you teach, as we've seen Julia and Christine doing. And you can see that Sarah has hers in hand as well. She puts it down briefly to