# Retrieval Practice

Retrieval Practice occurs when learners recall and apply multiple examples of previously learned knowledge or skills after a period of forgetting. This definition suggests two key things.

## First: Intentionality

You might say, “Oh, asking kids about concepts we previously learned? I do that all the time,” but what we're talking about here is more than just occasional episodic review—“Remember how we talked about juxtaposition when we read *Romeo and Juliet*?” It's the strategic use of retrieval, systematically and regularly. This might even mean *Retrieval Practice* becomes a discrete part of your lessons—a chunk of time you design with the explicit purpose of causing students to recall important things in strategic ways, probably using tools like *Cold Call* and *Call and Response* to ensure that every student recalls the requisite information. Retrieval in these settings need not be simplistic or rote. A bit of challenge is beneficial, so changing formats or asking students to apply concepts in new ways is likely to help.

## Second: Strategic Delay

Notice on the Forgetting Curve that the delay between rounds of retrieval increases slightly each time. Gradually increasing the intervals between rounds of retrieval aids memory because the best time to remember something is when you have begun to forget it, and the rate of our forgetting is constantly changing. And if nothing else, a glance at the Forgetting Curve should confirm that it is almost impossible to master a concept in a durable and enduring way in a single lesson.³

You might be tempted to think of *Retrieval Practice* as a recipe for mere rote memorization, but this is not the case. Retrieval is an opportunity for what Brown, Roediger, and McDaniel call “elaboration”: connecting an idea to other ideas, reflecting on it, and expanding it as you review it. Elaboration aids in retrieval, in fact.⁴ When a concept is connected to other related ideas and when students can