feedback on drafts, gathered and designed support materials, helped to select videos, and generally offered good advice and counsel in a hundred ways. There were dark and hopeless hours in writing this book. But then I would get my draft back and she would have taken the time to spell out exactly why she liked a phrase or a paragraph in the most supportive way and I would keep going. I am profoundly grateful for that and also for the many times she pushed me to change my thinking as we reflected on and revised the techniques.

Emily Badillo also played a critical role in the writing of this book. If the name is familiar it's because her videos appear throughout the book as well. She too was invaluable in reading and marking up drafts—and in drafting sections and sourcing support material, as well as screening and recommending videos.

As I was writing this book, my team and I were also providing training and curriculum to thousands of teachers in the United States and abroad. We had an organization to run, in other words. Every leader brings their own unique skills to such an effort. My own leadership skills include leaving emails unanswered for months, making sure meetings begin awkwardly and sometimes before everyone knows about them. Also: hiding in my office for days at a time to obsess over a paragraph while deadlines go hurtling past. Thus my partners in leading Team TLAC, Chief Academic Officer Erica Woolway and Co-Managing Director Darryl Williams, deserve a double dose of thanks and credit—for their ideas, insights, and deep understanding of teaching, as well as for their ability to gently manage around my “skills.” I couldn't ask for better partners.

Writing can be a slow process, but the process of writing this book was especially challenging given that it was done