many ways we are evolved to use our adolescent years to test limits and theories.

What that means is that the environment should provide the necessary feedback on experiments—the goal is not to tell young people that skipping homework is OK—in an atmosphere that treats experimentation as an expected event. We want to help those experiments yield useful and productive lessons, but also to remember that the behaviors we see often are experiments and that students themselves may not consciously realize that they are experimenting.

If this is the case, then maintaining *Emotional Constancy*—lessening the intensity of strong emotion, especially frustration and disappointment—is a key part of our job.

Generally speaking, strong negative emotions by teachers only intensify emotions among students. A student behaves poorly and takes a bit of an attitude; the teacher bristles back; the student reacts to the rising emotion by talking back more strongly, and a small mistake becomes larger. Or a student makes a mistake and a teacher snaps angrily at him while giving a consequence; part of him thinks, *Why is she yelling at me? Does she yell at me more than she yells at others?* He has these thoughts instead of reflecting on the connection between his actions and the consequence. The teacher's emotions insert another variable into the equation and distract him from his own behavior.

Compare that to Hasan Clayton's interaction with Kevin. With studious calm Hasan asked Kevin to take responsibility, and explained why the experiment led to poor outcome. And then Kevin proposed a consequence. This is to say, *Kevin heard everything Hasan said, in part because Hasan was not shouting it or reacting with shock.* Kevin shouldn't have slept through class but it was not thoroughly unexpected that he tried.