Cheryl if you weren't sure of her mindset and the likelihood of her follow-through. *Cheryl, turn and face Carly. Good, please give her a bit of eye contact so she knows you're listening. OK, now share your thought or ask her what she thought.*

Jason Brewer does a really nice job of pacing his sequential *What to Do* directions for a different reason in the video *Jason Brewer: Pencils Are Down*. He wants to give students time to finish each task in his directions well, without rushing, so he parses them one by one with lots of space in between and with a calm and easy voice.

**Observable Directions.** The more observable you make a direction the more you can assess follow-through and, if necessary, reinforce accountability for a student who's confused, distracted, or not especially inclined to follow through at the moment. Telling a student to “pay attention” is the classic counterexample. It's non-observable. So if I tell Caleb to pay attention and in my estimation he does not improve and I say, “Caleb, I asked you to pay attention,” he would likely reply, “But I was paying attention,” either because he believed he was or because he was seeking to avoid responsibility. But if my directions were observable: “Caleb, pick up your pencil and take notes in the space at the top of your paper,” and Caleb continued to struggle, I could first say, “Caleb, pick up your pencil please,” and watch for his follow-through, pacing my further directions from there based on his response. It's much harder to sustain an “I did pick up my pencil” argument when your pencil is not in your hand than it is to sustain an “I was paying attention” argument. Now Caleb's lack of follow-through is clear and unambiguous so if I must respond with a consequence of some sort, it will be clear—to me and to him—that it is justified.