What happens next is critical to Asha's future. Will her classmates seem like they care about her idea? Will she read interest in their faces? Will they nod and show their appreciation? Ask a follow-up question? Jot down a phrase in their notes? Or will they be slouched in their chairs and turned away, checking their phones literally or metaphorically, their body language expressing their indifference? *Oh, did you say something?* Smirk. Will the next comment ignore her idea? Will there *even be* a next comment, or will her words drift away in a silence that tells her that no one cared enough to acknowledge or even look at her after she spoke?

These factors are Stations of the Cross in Asha's journey. They will influence the relationship she perceives between herself and school and her aspirations. She is a vibrant soul, full of ideas she does not ordinarily share and wondering quietly if maybe someone like her could become a doctor. She doesn't know anyone who's done that, but she finds herself thinking about it sometimes.

Obviously, those dreams don't all come down to this moment, but we would be foolish to dismiss its relevance. It could be the first tiny step on the path to medical school. Or it could be the last time she raises her hand all year.

Yes, it matters whether her teacher responds to her comment with encouragement—but perhaps not as much as how the social environment, the rest of Asha's peers, respond. If her teacher praises Asha's comment amidst scorn and resounding silence from her peers, the benefit will be limited. The teacher's capacity to shape norms in Asha's classroom matters at least as much as her ability to connect individually with Asha. Relationships matter, but the social norms we create probably matter more. That's a hard thing to acknowledge. It removes us from the center of the story a little bit. But it's a powerful thing to