She knows where she's going and isn't anxious or worried about what's next, how to do it, and how long it will take; her working memory is free to listen to each answer or to keep a planned five-minute discussion to five minutes in real time because she knows where she wants it to go and can steer it there as gently or decisively as needed. She is a teacher who finds it easy to laugh alongside her students and celebrate their work like Sarah does. You can't be fully present unless you're prepared.

Like Christine's preparation, Sarah's is a product of habit and experience. Sarah initially prepared her lesson much like Christine did: planning her key instructional moves—her *Means of Participation*—and the mistakes she thought she might see, but her final step came that morning. “I had 45 minutes,” she told me, referring to a busy morning on the day she taught this lesson. So she went through and reviewed her exemplars.

Exemplars, you'll recall, are correct answers that you write out to your own questions. They are the answers you hope a student will give to your question. It would be easy to overlook this step or underestimate its value in planning. It seems perhaps both obvious and redundant. You might argue that you have the answer “in your head” and don't need to write it out. But this simple action might be the single most important step in preparing to teach.

To see why, let's take a look at a tiny moment from two lessons where you can see exemplars being used. First, there's the clip Denarius Frazier: Remainder. Check what he does at 1:12 in this lesson on dividing polynomials—you'll see the whole lesson in [Chapter Three](#), “Check for Understanding.” Explaining to a student why her work is incorrect, he quickly glances at his exemplar, which he's carrying with him. It helps him to diagnose what she's done wrong more quickly and accurately. “Your remainder is off