or two of full participation isn't nearly as good as everyone engaged and participating all class long.

One easy way to get a high Participation Ratio might be to do a lot of *Call and Response*. Students love it—at least younger ones—and I can see that everyone is answering my questions. *If I add six and six what do I get ... class?!*

The problem of course is that while adding six and six is helpful to a degree, there's not much “desirable difficulty.” My questioning isn't going to be rigorous enough to ensure deep understanding of the math. To do that I've got to ask harder questions about harder things. Students have to strain a little. The rigor of student thinking I could call Think Ratio (TR) and put it on my y axis.2

I could boost my Think Ratio even more if my students thought deeply about substantive questions *in a variety of ways*. Writing, for example, is especially rigorous. Writing and then listening to how others thought about the same question might be even more challenging, with unexpected ideas suggested by others to wrestle with and reconcile with my own thoughts. At least that would happen if I were a good listener. If I had to rewrite my initial idea based on what I'd heard in the discussion and then explain my changes to a partner, my thinking could have even greater depth and variety.

If that happened and it happened steadily throughout class, I might plot my class overall at point 1 on the Ratio Spectrum above. My Think Ratio would be high throughout and so would my Participation Ratio.

This would be better than my *Call and Response* lesson with math facts, which would land around point 3: high Participation Ratio but low Think Ratio.

If I instead dusted off my deepest questions about the nature of math and had a profound discussion about it with