and muscular about the thunder of group percussion.

- **Universal.** When you give Props, everybody joins in. It's up to you to set and enforce this expectation.
- **Enthusiastic.** The tone is energetic and lively. It should be a break—brief and fun—from hard work. Resist the temptation to make it too grown-up; it doesn't have to narrate values and express a mission-aligned personal credo. If it's a little bit of silly, it will reinforce moments when students have already demonstrated those things. Props are the exclamation point, not the sentence.
- **Evolving.** Let your students suggest and develop ideas for Props. They will constantly renew the systems with fresh and funky ideas and will participate more vigorously because they have helped invent them. And if students are forever thinking of new ones, Props will never get tired, boring, or obligatory.

# TECHNIQUE 51: DO IT AGAIN

Routines give students a clear model of how to execute common tasks successfully and clear working memory for higher-order tasks. If the transition is quick and automatic, students' minds can be free to roam or to reflect on content, like yours on your drive to work, perhaps. The more familiar the routine, the more it benefits your classroom and your students, in other words. What that implies is lots of practice. Practice with feedback and correction is the only way to build a habit. That's where *Do It Again* comes in. It is a very simple idea: when we are learning something and need to refine the routine or when