partner and discuss your observations …” This also, by the way, makes a crisper and more visible start to the *Turn and Talk*, and norms that are more visible are more likely to become universal quickly.

On the other hand, you may notice the directions in *Arielle Hoo: Eyes Up Here*, where she says, “Eyes up here in four … three … two …” She’s given her *What to Do* but also given a countdown to students before the cue so they have a bit of time and space and can finish what they are writing.

## Simplified What to Do

If a student does not respond to your *What to Do* direction, simplify it, either by removing words, requesting an even more concrete action, or reducing the number of steps you’ve asked the student to follow through on. For example, if you say to a student, “Pick up your pencil and take notes at the top of the page,” and she doesn’t do it, you might say, “Pick up your pencil, please.” If you still don’t get follow-through, you might point to the pencil. “Pencil in your hand, please, Roberta.” Breaking down directions makes it easier to teach and reinforce your expectations for how students should complete a task.

What about when your direction is explicitly in response to a student who needs redirection? Adapting *What to Do* to the type of situation—and your assessment of its possible causes—can help ensure success in terms of both the task getting done and relationships being preserved.

**Standard:** The cause of poor follow-through is unclear and could plausibly be benign, such as distraction or confusion:

*Assume the Best:* “Hmm, I must not have been clear. When we are in ‘Learner’s Position,’ that means our