disingenuous, especially through overuse. When we overly rely on “excellent” and “awesome” to stamp every interaction we have with a child—what I sometimes call the state of “awesome awesomeness”—we eliminate our ability to truly and genuinely celebrate the accomplishments that are indeed *excellent* and *awesome* when they really do occur.

## Reinforce Actions, Not Traits

Positive reinforcement is a response to an action that has just occurred: a student does something well, and you tell her she's done a nice job. At its best, positive reinforcement is also about the future. You don't just want a student to feel good about having done something correctly, you want to help her understand how to succeed again the next time. Even more deeply, you want to reinforce a way of thinking about learning that embraces struggle and adversity—relishes it even. Carol Dweck's seminal research on this topic, discussed in her book *Mindset*, has shown that in the long run, people who have a growth mindset far outpace those with a fixed mindset. Her research suggests that the difference is one of the strongest predictors of success. People with a fixed mindset see intelligence and skill as something static. You're smart, or you're not. You're good at something, or you're not. People with a growth mindset see intelligence and skill as something you develop. You work hard, and you get better. Smart isn't what you are; it's what you do. Individuals with a fixed mindset see a challenge and think, “Oh, no. This is going to be difficult.” Individuals with a growth mindset see a challenge and think, “Oh, boy. This is going to be difficult.”

Dweck finds that praise is central to the development of growth mindset. If students are praised for traits (“You're smart”), they become risk averse: they worry that if they fail, they won't be smart anymore. If students are praised