can't remember or are not clear on the question! So making sure that the question is absolutely clear—and possibly even written down somewhere if the *Turn and Talk* is more than a minute in length—can help remind people of what they are supposed to be discussing.^6

A final note on accountability and focus. Students engage fully in *Turn and Talks* in large part because it is their habit to do so. We want to avoid letting them get into the habit of sitting looking at each other during a *Turn and Talk* because they have little to say. In fact we want to avoid their even having that experience. We want them to assume the conversation will be active and useful. One reason why students might have experiences with disengaged and passive *Turn and Talks* is because otherwise productive *Turn and Talks* went on too long and resulted in awkward moments when they and their partners were all talked out. That’s my first topic in the next section, but it’s worth noting that keeping *Turn and Talks* short also plays a role in keeping students engaged.

## Design and Sequence for Rigor

Recently I watched a lesson from a middle school science class. The topic of the lesson was friction. The class had read an article on how friction might affect the movements of a basketball during a game, and the teacher asked his students to *Turn and Talk* to discuss what they’d learned. The teacher’s in-cue was crisp, and he had established a culture of positive accountability, so students buzzed into action, sharing their energy, their excitement, and, as it turned out afterwards, a great deal of misinformation.

When the teacher asked students to share the ideas they’d discussed in pairs, the first three out of four shared ideas that misapplied or misunderstood how friction worked. Almost everyone, the data was telling him, had shared and