bit of space to pull it together and decide he or she wants to do the right thing, and a confirmation glance can provide it. It's best to begin by being brief with the delay before a confirmation glance, and then extend it a bit longer over your time with the class. Sometimes teachers use it explicitly with students, as in, “I'm going to walk away, and when I look back, I am going to see you with your pencil in your hand, writing your response.” Of course, you will need to follow up decisively if your confirmation glance reveals lack of follow-through, but using it can intimate a potent, calm, self-assuredness to your class.

## TECHNIQUE 57: ART OF THE CONSEQUENCE

Unfortunately, despite your best efforts to redirect nonproductive behavior with subtlety and grace, to prevent small things from becoming bigger things and to encourage students to choose to do the most positive things, you will have to give consequences in your classroom. This is all but inevitable and it is not a statement about what you believe or don't believe about students. You should love your students and want the best for them. You will still occasionally be in a situation that calls for consequences. In many cases you will give consequences *because* you care about your students. The key is to give consequences judiciously, justly, and humanely with the purpose of changing nonproductive behaviors into positive behaviors rather than punishing.

And in the end if your consequences are appropriate—that is, in most cases they let students learn lessons at small cost—given with humanity and supported by teaching, they are a useful thing. “Treating students as having responsibility over their actions is vital if we are to teach them how to accept responsibility for themselves, to