“Nailed it!” as a group to celebrate Akheem's work in *Sarah Wright: Tio Luis*.

But while it looks different with high school students, it is still valuable, as you can see in *Sadie McCleary: Means of Participation*. She calls on a student to explain what the Celsius temperature scale is based on, and when his response suggests that he is unclear about the boiling point of water, Sadie recognizes this as a key piece of information students will need in long-term memory. She uses *Call and Response* to cause them to practice recalling this piece of information, to better encode it.

Her cue is a *group prompt*—“Tell me”—and she uses it to allow her to clearly identify moments when she'd like students to call and respond throughout her lessons. Her *Call and Response* moments are fairly infrequent. This is perhaps part of why they work with older students; she doesn't overuse them. But it also means that the cue has to be clearer. Mixing in the odd *Call and Response* with high school students helps students focus attention and remain actively engaged. It's a bit of novelty and so draws attention. Evolutionarily, what's new and unexpected gets attended to more closely because in our ancient history as a species, it could contain survival information. This phenomenon is known as “novelty bias” and it tells us that even if *Call and Response* itself is not the most substantive way to interact with classroom content, judiciously done—as a variation rather than a theme—it can help build attention. But it also explains why Sadie quickly transitions away from *Call and Response* after one or two interactions. The benefits from novelty bias erode quickly.

Here's something seemingly obvious that both Christine and Sadie have in common. Their students are repeating something important. In Christine's class it's the