it, which is why memory and learning are closely related. https://www.aft.org/sites/default/files/periodicals/willingham_0.pdf.

8. If there's one thing my work life under pandemic has taught me, it's that I need the possibility of having to answer in order to stay fully engaged. Having seen this in a thousand Zoom calls, I recognize its echoes in face-to-face interactions.

9. Another way that planning questions in advance can help: You’re more likely to avoid asking a question for which, upon reflection, there is no clear answer.

10. Jonathan Haidt and Greg Lukianoff, *The Coddling of the American Mind* (Penguin Books, 2019), 29.

11. Elise J. Dallimore, Julie H. Hertenstein, and Marjorie B. Platt, “Impact of Cold-Calling on Student Voluntary Participation,” *Journal of Education Management*, 2012. The authors compared 16 sections of a single course with 600-plus total students in which half of the teachers used Cold Call and half did not.

12. Cold Call is a great example of the Band-Aid Paradox from the Preface to this book. Cold Calling involves some anxiety for a teacher. Will it go well? Will it be stressful for students? It is harder to figure out how to remove Band-Aids slowly that to justify ripping them off quickly. Some people will choose the latter. But you don't have to.

13. I'm grateful to Ellie Ryall, a history teacher in England who shared this thought via Twitter. Since then, she has had the wisdom to ditch Twitter and therefore I can't give her the footnote she deserves.

14. You can read more about the impact of pronunciation and the importance of phonemic awareness in this