# Lessons from Online

Some of our greatest lessons from remote and online instruction have to do with *Checking for Understanding*. The video *Sadie McCleary: Get You There*, for example, is an exceptional example of how to create a *Culture of Error* online. The first thing you'll notice is that the video is a montage of tiny moments from one of Sadie's chemistry lessons at Western Guilford High School in Greensboro, North Carolina. *Culture of Error* is built up through the aggregation of tiny moments from throughout your lessons. It's a seasoning you are frequently shaking on the meal. But if AP Chemistry is challenging in the classroom, it's exponentially harder when learned on your laptop. Sadie normalizes the struggle constantly and gracefully. She asks Sierra to explain the impact of solution B on reaction rate from a slide she's projecting. “I'm going to be honest, Ms. McCleary,” Sierra replies. “I'm so confused.”

“That's OK,” Sadie replies, but then continues, “I'm going to ask you a couple of questions to get you there—because I know you can get there.” Her tone is steady and without judgment. She expresses her belief in Sierra. And then they get to work. So much of what students are responding to when they develop a sense of trust in a teacher, my colleague Dan Cotton observes, is the teacher's competence. Sadie is calm and confident when she finds that the material is difficult for Sierra and she reminds Sierra that it's a struggle, not a crisis—they'll get to work and solve the problem.

Later in the lesson Sadie is more proactive. “Finding the units for K is always the hardest skill of this unit and if it feels tricky that's OK ... we'll continue to practice it.”