participants know where they stand on time. Generally we find that they much prefer self-management to being constantly managed by us—particularly at lunch breaks.

You can encourage students to embrace time management and develop time management skills by setting up opportunities for them to complete multiple tasks during a block of independent time. “I’m putting twenty minutes on the clock. In that time, you need to edit your paragraph and complete your self-assessment.”

## Use Specific, Odd Increments

Whether you are showing the clock or are the only one who can see it, it’s valuable to *use specific times and odd increments* when you discuss time allocations with your class. Consider this mundane case study. If I was leading a professional development session for teachers and said, “Okay, let’s take a short break and pick up again in ten minutes,” I would probably not have people return ready to work in ten minutes. The time allocation I used—ten minutes—sounds like an estimate. Round numbers often contain an implicit “about” in them, as in “Let’s pick up again in about ten minutes.” Ironically, I’d get people back and ready to work much more quickly if I gave them a longer time increment for their break, *as long as it was specific*. In a race between “Okay, let’s take a short break and pick up again in ten minutes” and “Okay, let’s take a short break and pick up again in twelve minutes,” I am betting on the second group every time.

In your classroom, be specific about exactly how long students have for an activity, and vary your allocations. Four minutes of group work is usually better than five minutes of group work (and three minutes is better than “two minutes,” which also sounds like an estimate), but better than both is an initial round of solo writing for two