ready to move on to the next stage—a new paragraph, a second draft, a harder set of problems, the last step in a lab. In many cases students determine their own timing for doing so, which can create opportunities for self-assessment.

You can see Hilary Lewis using the technique in her first-grade classroom in the video *Hilary Lewis: Green Post-It*. This clip appeared in previous versions of the book and is one of our longest-serving clips at workshops; we continue to use it because Hilary does such a beautiful job of gauging student mastery before independent work. She's warm, attentive, and exudes high expectations. She asks students sitting on the carpet to complete a math problem on a green sticky note, which she calls a “ticket.” Students must show that ticket to her as proof that they're ready to start independent practice (IP) at their desks. She stokes their interest in a perfect first-grade way by comparing this to the experience of “going into a movie.” By requiring students to “earn” the opportunity, she turns IP into a kind of reward.

When the first student comes to have her work checked, it looks for a moment like a race is on to get in line first. Students start to scramble to show Ms. Lewis their work, but Hilary checks that trend in a loving voice: “Scholars, the only way you can come up here is if I ask you to come.”

One by one, students complete the problem and await Hilary's signoff. She calls them up, first individually and then row by row. For correct work, she responds, “Go get started” in a warm, quiet way. Not unexpectedly a few students have done the problem incorrectly—or perhaps hastily—to which Hilary responds: “Please go back and check your work.” Her reaction is emotionally constant. When one student shows her work for the wrong problem, Hilary uses the same warm, supportive tone: “OK. You did