them. One student thanked the lunchroom staff for cooking for them (incidentally, cafeteria food in the UK is far superior to that in the United States and much more likely to involve on-site cooking). And still the hands shot up into the air. A student thanked his mother for everything she did to provide for him. He was perhaps thirteen years old and shared his appreciation in front of perhaps a hundred other teenaged boys, speaking haltingly but honestly about how grateful he was for how hard she worked and the sacrifices she made. You don't see that every day. The gratitude seemed to be endless and came pouring out of them until the teacher in charge said it was time to go back to class.

I found myself wondering about it for a while afterwards. Here were kids from some of the poorest sections of the city, kids who might have faced difficulty at home and on their way to school. Many had left (or even lived still) in places racked by violence and difficulty. But at Michaela, their days were punctuated not by someone reminding them that they had suffered or been neglected by society, but by the assumption that they would want to show their gratitude to the world around them.

What did this mean? Well, first of all, it gave rise to a culture of thoughtfulness. Everywhere I looked students did things for one another. In one class a student noticed another without a pencil and gave her one without being asked. In the hallway a student dropped some books and suddenly three or four students were squatting to pick them up. When students left a classroom they said, “Thank you” to their teacher.

Maybe thanking makes behavior worthy of gratitude more likely to occur. Students know their goodness is seen and valued, not just by their teachers but their peers. It spreads. Maybe at first it's due to the plausibility of appreciation but after a while it just takes on a life of its