- Tamesha is warm, upbeat, and cheery. She first praises effort where she sees it, naming specific students so they feel seen and important, then quickly transitions to reading quietly over students' shoulders to show how much she values their ideas.
- Hasan, too, shows his appreciation for students who engage the writing straight away. He modulates his voice, lowering it to use a more reflective tone that matches the task. He reminds his students to write in complete sentences.
- Jamila's language—“go ahead”—and her hint of a smile imply that students must be eager to write and cherish the opportunity for reflection. Perhaps at first some did and some didn't, but I suspect her introduction made a least a few feel more excited.
- Sadie adapts her routine to a problem set. She's clear about the task and the time and graciously protects the transition to begin from disruption with a nonverbal “pause” signal and a promise to come check in with her students individually. To lose momentum would have been a catastrophe for the focus she'd created.

The downside of these videos is that they show you—mostly —what it looks likes *after* the routine is formed. Applying what we know about building strong and successful habits will be critical to understanding the initial steps required to establish *Silent Solo* in your classroom.

A habit is a chain of actions that happen in sequence. Since one action is dependent on the one prior we are required to be intentional about the design of the component parts and how students learn them. To sustain and maximize a habit we also have to think about motivation—how do we get students to embrace the habit willingly, as students appear to do in Hasan’s, Tamesha’s, Jamila’s, and Sadie's