can project on the overhead or on the wall. If students can see the clock, they can self-manage—learning, for example, to pace their time for a short-answer response.

Some might protest that they don't want to be locked into a specific time allocation for an activity when they don't really know how long it will take, but it's important to remember that you're not actually locked in by giving an initial time allocation. If the time you allocated wasn't enough, you can always extend it (“OK, we've been working hard, and it looks like another two minutes might help”) or shorten it (“Wow, your answers are too interesting and too good to wait the full three minutes, so we'll check in at two minutes!”).

Showing the clock gives rise to a time-sensitive culture. I would love to tell you that classrooms should be timeless places where we take as long as we need and follow every digression, but we all know that's not the reality of our daily periods of forty-two, fifty-five, or seventy-five minutes. And the fact is that you are more likely to be able to occasionally meander timelessly if you manage the rest of your time very well.

*Showing* time also allows you to *talk about time* less often. Projecting a clock as it counts down the minutes or seconds on an activity requires no additional narration once your students have learned to attend to it (and once they know that you're going to abide by it). You just say, “Okay, let's go,” start the clock, and let it run, perhaps offering an occasional reminder (“You'll hear the beep in just under a minute,” for example). Then say, “Okay, let's see how we did,” when the timer has finally wound down.

Several years of applying the tools of master teachers has led my Uncommon Schools Teach Like a Champion team to use this at our workshops. During independent work (or breaks!) we often project an Internet stopwatch so that