Another *Do Now* that we learned from online was Hasan Clayton's at Nashville Classical Charter School. Hasan's lesson in the video *Hasan Clayton: Two Noses* is synchronous—his students are with him live—so he greets them warmly but quickly and then asks them to complete their *Do Now* task “in the chat.” They can send their answers to him and he can instantly review. And of course this way he'll know who's completed the task when. Notice that the substantive part of his *Do Now* in an online setting is reduced to just one question: “In one artful sentence, summarize the nature versus nurture debate. Include a word that shows contrast....” You can read more about Hasan's decision to have his students respond in “one artful sentence” in [technique 41](#), *Art of the Sentence*. Hasan has students chat that their answers just to him so he can choose a few thought-provoking or exemplary answers and share them with the class (a sort of an online *Show Call*) to prompt a rich discussion and honor students who've done quality work. Notice also, though, that Hasan adds a second, more playful question to his *Do Now* (Would you rather have one eye or two noses?). The purpose is in the playfulness. Hasan is using the question to build community and connection among students when they are isolated and separated by circumstance. He's careful to spend only a little time on this but he and his colleagues did it regularly when teaching online to build positive culture, and you can imagine how the occasional playful *Do Now* question could be a bonus, even in a brick-and-mortar classroom.

## TECHNIQUE 21: TAKE THE STEPS^1

Strong content knowledge is essential to excellence in teaching but it also has a downside. Expertise carries with