Consider a science teacher who asks, during a lab, “Should we add our solution now or wait till it cools?”

I haven't provided enough context to indicate whether the solution should be added now but I'd wager the answer is pretty likely that we should wait. Would you stop a lesson to ask, “Should we add the solution now or wait till it cools?” if the answer was that you should add the solution now? Unlikely. You'd just say, “Now we add our solution.” Or would you ask “What should we do now?” The answer is obvious and students are likely to perceive the question as rhetorical or think, *Why are you asking us?*

One reason this may happen is because a teacher is trying to ask a question when she really just wants to explain something: “It's important to remember that we should wait for the solution to cool.” Or even: “It's important to remember that we should wait for the solution to cool. Why?” It's OK to tell people things directly. Appearing to ask a question when you want to tell students something wastes time and builds a culture where questions don't feel engaging and authentic. It's hard to build intellectual engagement from that kind of experience.

The questions “Should I add the solution now?” and “Should I add the solution now or wait till it cools?” are also uninspiring because they are binary. There are two possible answers in each case. “Yes” or “no” in the first question and “now” or “later” in the second. “What should I do now?” would be more interesting. “What should I look for now?”—a perception-based question for which the answer might be “the temperature”—would be better. Or “What's happening now?” which, assuming you can't see anything happening at the moment, might have more of a retrospective focus and allow you to check for understanding of previously taught content. These questions are all more interesting because there are more