“doing TLAC” and I didn’t like what I saw, and that, too, was cause for reflection. How could it be that I would see two teachers using similar techniques in nearby rooms and one made me feel pride and exhilaration and the other distress?

I say that without judgment. One of many broader life lessons I’ve learned from great teachers can be found in technique 59, *Positive Framing*, and specifically in the section on *Assume the Best*, which involves avoiding the urge to attribute negative intention to an action unless it’s unambiguously the case. When a couple of students don’t follow your directions, for example, if you are assuming the best, you might say, “Guys, I must not have been clear enough about how to do this; I’d like you to work silently,” or “Pause. A couple of us forgot that this was supposed to be a silent task. Let’s fix that now.” Assuming the best—*I must not have been clear or you probably forgot versus you don’t care or you ignored the directions*—not only builds stronger, more positive relationships but it causes you to perceive your classroom—and the world—differently because what you practice seeing is, in the end, what you come to see. In *The Happiness Advantage*, Shawn Achor calls this the Tetris Effect. If you play the game Tetris long enough, you begin to imagine its brightly colored shapes falling everywhere. If you make a habit of naming things you are grateful for each day, you come to see a world full of things worthy of gratitude. If you practice assuming good intentions you see a world striving for goodness and this makes you happier, more optimistic, and probably a better teacher.

It’s the same for students, incidentally. When we help them to make the most charitable interpretation possible of their peers—are you sure she meant to push you? are you sure he meant that as a slight?—we give them a better world. As John Haidt and Greg Lukianoff point out, having a