The idea of Direct Instruction might at first feel antithetical to pacing, but that is only if you imagine it in caricature—like the teacher in *Ferris Bueller's Day Off* droning on to a room of half-asleep students. When Direct Instruction is implemented well, it not only has important effects on student understanding, but can be energetic and contribute positively to pacing. And the key to implementing it well? As Barak Rosenshine points out, Direct Instruction, like all methods, must respond to the limitations on working memory. “Presenting too much material at once may confuse students because their working memory may be unable to process it… . More effective teachers do not overwhelm their students by presenting too much material at once. Rather these teachers present only small amounts of new material at any time, and then assist the students as they practice this material.”⁶

This may sound at first like it contradicts Rosenshine's observation about the importance of investing heavily in background knowledge first, before engaging students in more interactive forms of processing, but that's not the case. You could imagine how Sadie McCleary might accomplish both. She might spend a few minutes explaining a new concept with students taking notes. Then they might pause: “Discuss how this might apply to X with your partner. Go.” Then perhaps a bit of *Cold Call* to make sure students understood. Then she might spend a few minutes explaining a bit more about the concept. Then a different activity to engage and give working memory time to process. “Take a minute to summarize what we've done so far in writing. Go.” Then she might ask a few students who've written insightful things to share. They might then discuss briefly. Then to the board again. Slides on. Taking notes as she explains a bit more about the concept. Switching from explicit teaching or other forms of knowledge assimilation to short reflective activities and