our learning time.” This emphasizes purpose rather than power.

Use *please* and *thank you*. “Please” and “thank you” cement the bonds of civility and community. We use them to show cordiality, appreciation, and respect. You want students to treat you and others with decency, civility, and caring, even if you must ask them to do things they may not be inclined to do, and therefore you should model that same decency, civility, and caring. “Please” and “thank you” do this. They help you express your caring and respect for students. This is especially important in moments that are most fraught.

Can “please” sound wrong? Of course, so some clarification is in order: It should not be a pleading please but a firm, respectful please. Usually that means very little pause after the “please” and a minimal degree of emphasis on the word. “Please take out your notebooks” in a steady rhythm with “please” no more emphasized than the rest of the words. “*Please* … take out your notebooks” is a sign of trouble—a subtle difference, but important.

Distinguish between *behavior* and *people*. When we give critical feedback or set limits, we want to say, “I believe in you” and “That can be better” at the same time. The first step is to frame critical comments as a judgment on an action, not a person.

Think for a moment about the phrase “You don’t,” as in:  
“You **don’t** put effort into your lab write-ups.”

Compare it to the same statement but with *didn’t* substituted for *don’t*: “You **didn’t** put much effort into this lab write-up.”

The word *don’t* judges. *This thing that you did is something you always do.* It globalizes a mistake and implies it is an enduring flaw. Maybe even hints at deliberateness. The