Which of the following functions would be parallel to the line y=3x? Select all that apply.  
*M=3 but parallel= same slope but different y-intercept*

A: y=-3x-5  
B: y=3x-5  
C: y=-3x  
D: y=-3x+5  
E: y=3x+5  
F: y=3x+0  
*The same line*

Bryan's actions were intended to increase the value of the time he spent studying common errors by making sure that students took careful note of what they learned. They knew not only which were the right answers, but which one had fooled many of them and why. And they had the rule as they now understood it handy for easy review. That's the idea behind *Own and Track*. If you're going to invest time studying mistakes, make sure students get the most out of it by “owning” the learning and tracking it.

Studying mistakes can be powerful but it's not without risks. It can lead to confusion on the part of students. They could walk away unsure of which part of the discussion was correct, with the muddled and confused memory that there were lots of ways to be wrong, but, hmmm, which was right? In fact, there's research to suggest that discussing wrong answers can result in students, especially the weakest students, failing to differentiate correct answers from incorrect ideas and merely remembering even better the errors you describe. One study found that “incorrect examples supported students' negative knowledge more than correct examples.” Error analysis benefited only students who had a strong working knowledge of how to arrive at the answer already, and students needed an “advanced” level of understanding before they were ready to benefit from analyzing errors. For other students, it actually made things worse! Now that is a note of caution!