rubric might note that a proficient essay “uses words and phrases, telling details, and sensory language to convey a vivid picture of the experiences, events, settings, and/or characters.” But what does it mean to use telling details and sensory language if you are a novice, and how do you determine their quality? An “inadequate” essay, according to the rubric, “merely tells experiences, events, settings, and/or characters.” So the difference is that a better essay uses sensory language and is vivid. Do students know what vivid language looks like? Do they know if their language is sensory? What would it mean in their minds to write in sensory language? Would it make the essay better if the author suddenly dropped in details about things he or she smelled and tasted? It might just as likely sound absurd. Instead, Wiliam and Leahy suggest looking at high-quality examples that include explanations of *how key elements were created*. Such a work might point out several passages that included vivid language or sensory detail. With a series of concrete examples, a novice now might really understand what it looks like and see how to embed it in a larger work. How are sensory details effectively included so they are not just greater in quantity but better in quality?⁶ Essentially, you are building a mental model for students so they can imagine and understand the component parts of the end product. The idea that the starting point for an assignment could be public work sampling—rather than abstract rubrics—is compelling. The key is to make the work samples concrete—to guide students through three or four examples of key elements, and then allow them to practice them discretely.⁷ This might result in several shorter exercises—studies—where students seek to master various parts, or solve smaller problems before composing a larger work. This is in fact how many of the great masters worked. Their canvases are the product of study after study in which