Designing a lesson packet in fact is one of the most effective tools for *Double Planning*. Here are five ways well-designed packets can improve your teaching and increase students' learning.

**Goal 1: Everything in One Place**

A well-designed packet provides students with all (or many) of the lesson materials in one place, where they are easily accessible, and thus minimizes the need to distribute additional materials, take out new documents, and move back and forth between them. Students can read and write about a text seamlessly in one place. Christine's packet, for example, includes the nonfiction articles she'll read to illuminate the chapter from the novel as well as definitions of the vocabulary she'll teach, the *Exit Ticket*, and various places to take notes. It's all in one place and that streamlines her lesson.

**Goal 2: Synergy with Pacing**

The packet allows Christine to be able to manage the student experience easily and effectively: she can jump ahead and skip an activity to save a little time but still have students complete it for homework; she can have students go back and reread a passage or check the *Do Now* at almost no transaction cost. It reduces the time required to change tasks and activities to a minimum. She can skip passing out the vocabulary sheets or collecting notes. Although it may seem trivial, saving minutes this way each day helps her add back days of lost instructional time to each school year.

As I discuss in the chapter on pacing, one way to draw attention to mileposts (see Chapter Six, “Pacing,”)—reference points inserted along the route of a journey to make the distance covered more visible to travelers—is