Data from the last thirty years lead to a conclusion that is not scientifically challengeable. Thinking well requires knowing facts, and that's true not simply because you need something to think about. The very processes that teachers care about most—critical thinking processes such as reasoning and problem-solving—are intimately intertwined with factual knowledge that is in long-term memory (not just found in the environment).

The tools in the ratio toolbox are wonderful, but they work only if they are employed in knowledge-rich (and knowledge-enriched) settings. That is: where students know a lot about the topics you ask them to think about because you've taught them. If you want a high Think Ratio you must have facts. Yes, “mere facts.” (I'm pausing here while a pall descends over some of my readership.) Students must have facts to use, apply, consider, connect, and reflect on. Of course, the facts are even better if they're connected in a deep and organized body of knowledge, the fancy name for which is schema.³ In a knowledge-rich environment, though, even “disconnected facts,” that straw man of futurist educators the world over, don't stay disconnected for long.⁴ Soon enough, students will see connections among the things they know and their facts will no longer be disconnected—doubly so if we place them in situations that make it more likely for them to connect the pieces of knowledge they hold.

I share this because the power of knowledge is one of the most misunderstood things in education. You've heard those self-same futurists and their acolytes in TED Talks and out on social media telling us that facts are irrelevant because you can look anything up on Google, but this is not, in fact, true. To use knowledge in critical thinking it has to be in your long-term memory. What we call insight or even creativity is often actually a bit of knowledge from