One of the nice things about *Affirmative Checking* is the avenues to self-assessment it can create. *Affirmative Checking* offers students an opportunity to gauge their own work and decide when they are ready for the teacher to evaluate what they've done. This empowers students to assess their own work first—*Am I done? Do I feel ready for the next step?*—before asking for a response from the teacher. Because students elect the moment they'd like feedback, *Affirmative Checking* gives us additional data on student thinking about their own work that we might not see when we're reading over students' shoulders (“Oh, I see—you thought this was finished, but let's think about ...”). Like *Stretch It* ([technique 17]()), it can contribute to a culture in which correct answers are rewarded with future challenge—for example, “Great, now you're ready to move onto some advanced problems.” That sense of accomplishment from seeing themselves pass through checkpoints successfully also help students develop confidence. Their progress is made more legible to them.

One of the keys to using *Affirmative Checking* effectively, however, is minimizing or eliminating the time students spend waiting for evaluation. The time students spend with a hand in the air, waiting for a teacher to come around (or even less productively, arms folded, pencil down, chatting with a neighbor) is a waste of precious instructional time and a risk that students will lose both their momentum and train of thought. The following tips for designing effective *Affirmative Checking* will help you balance student independence with efficiency.

Consider whether the content of your lesson is conducive to staged checking. The checkpoint(s) should ideally pass quickly—recall how efficient Hilary is when she reads each sticky note. If student work requires lengthy analysis or detailed feedback, it may not be feasible to ask everyone to wait for the next step while you read and respond.