Describe what students *should be doing* as opposed to what they *are not doing* (“Michael, I need your eyes” is better than “Michael, for the last time, stop getting distracted!”).

Use the least amount of verbiage you can (“That's two bucks. I need you tracking,” rather than “You just earned a two-scholar-dollar deduction because you chose to draw cartoons when you were supposed to be listening to my lecture. You should know better …,” and so forth). Doing so maximizes instructional time and minimizes the amount of time students are left onstage.

## Get Back on Track

When it comes to consequences, the goal is to get in, get out, and *move on* with the business of teaching. Teachers who are able to get *all* students back on track after a consequence remember to show that it's over.

What you focus on after you give a consequence speaks volumes to students about what you value. If you want students to carry on with learning, resume instruction with warmth and energy. Find an opportunity to talk to students in a calm, relaxed manner to show that the interaction is over. You can even go a step further by getting the student who received a consequence positively back into the flow of class by asking a question or acknowledging his or her work. Doing so models forgiveness and shows students that you still value them and want them to be successful.

## The Million-Dollar Question: Consequence or Correction?

One of the trickiest aspects of managing a classroom is deciding when to give a consequence rather than a correction. The question is tough, in part because teachers must decide on a case-by-case basis. That being said, here are some helpful rules of thumb: