later. Then she returns Patience to the task: “You need to answer my question.” Patience, it turns out, is capable of putting the kicking behind her. It wasn’t perhaps the crisis it appeared to be, and Christy rewards her with a bright, warm smile. Notice also the impeccable Economy of Language Christy uses. “Three … two … one. Inappropriate time. You need to answer my question.” It takes only ten words to resolve the crisis. Twenty words would probably do the opposite.

## Notes

1. This term is discussed in the Preface to this edition. Roughly it describes a caregiver’s tendency to give lower-quality treatment to a patient rather than one harder to administer but preferential on the grounds that it is in the patient’s interests.

2. I don’t mean the young people themselves; I mean the behaviors they may manifest. I don’t believe in the fixity of traits and propose instead that the overwhelming majority of students will show grace, curiosity, and virtue if we build classrooms that socialize those things intentionally enough.

3. https://fordhaminstitute.org/national/research/discipline-reform-through-the-eyes-of-teachers. David Griffith and Adam Tyner surveyed over 1,200 teachers from every type of public school, asking about the behavioral environment as they experienced it. Crucially, they separated the data according to school and teacher characteristics.

4. Fifty-eight percent. More than half also reported that they dealt with verbal disrespect from students daily or weekly.