other abstract descriptors (see [technique 21](#), *Take the Steps*) and the “Law of Comparative Judgment” to more accurately and quickly differentiate key aspects of work quality.^28

## Move Systematically

As you move around the room, your goal is to be systematic —to cover all parts of the room and be aware of what’s happening everywhere, and to show that your movements and any interactions when you *Circulate* are universal. You are likely to engage anyone at any time by checking his work, nodding at him, or sharing a smile.

In the video *Denarius Frazier: Remainder*, which figures prominently in [Chapter 3](#), you may recall how systematically Denarius moved around the room to give every student feedback and even designed his room so that his typical route of observation revealed more data.

Recently my team and I noticed how some top teachers tended to “walk the circuit” when approaching students they needed to correct. Let’s say in this case it’s Alphonse, who’s off task and distracting the student next to him. If you march too directly toward Alphonse, you intimate that you are anxious and tense. This is counterproductive in the long term. Moving too directly can also cause other students to watch your interaction with Alphonse. Taking a bit of a circuitous route to Alphonse can make your interaction more private and just might buy you a few seconds to choose your words carefully before you arrive.

Systematic is not the same as predictable, though. It’s often beneficial to avoid using the same pattern every time (left to right; clockwise around the room). Vary your pattern, skip interacting with some students, and invest heavily in time spent with others unpredictably as you *Circulate*.