the wanderers back into the fold quickly and smoothly. A good teacher, too. It's part of the job.

Similarly, even when they are eager to share, students' comments can inadvertently derail the pacing or focus of a lesson by being digressive or just plain off-topic. Don't get me wrong. I love long and insightful student comments—when they come at the right time. However, a long and tangentially related comment that involves references to several obscure and only semi-relevant shows and movies at the wrong time is a rally-killer. (It can be that even with best intentions and offered at the “right time”) There you are, finally having gotten a quality discussion about *The Giver* going with lots of kids weighing in. There are only five minutes left in class but there's so much good thinking going on and just maybe the epiphany about what “release” means is about to happen, when one young wanderer begins a long-winded and meandering discussion of some of his personal highlights of the novel. He's lost his train of thought now, so he's throwing words at the problem—trying to use quantity to make up for a loss of clarity. In that moment it feels a bit like grounding into a double play, except maybe it's multiple double plays (I say this lovingly). Suddenly the optimism that you're going to pull it out and get to the epiphany evaporates into thin air.

In this situation you need a way to press pause on the digression, to help him cut his comment off even though he hasn't offered to end it. If you can do so warmly and skillfully, without making your student feel embarrassed, it's good for the class discussion (and therefore for learning) and *good for him*. To let him go on and on is a disservice. “Helpful” is providing a gentle nudge to help young people understand how to read their audience and setting.