of the Internet. Just possibly this sense of dynamism—especially at the start of the lesson—is something we can borrow online.

# TECHNIQUE 30: WORK THE CLOCK

We measure things because they matter. Time is the greatest resource you as a classroom teacher manage, so measuring that time intentionally, strategically, and often visibly is critical in shaping your students' experience in the classroom. This skill is called *Work the Clock*.

## Show the Clock

First, *show the clock*: make time visible to students. Showing how you allocate time—indicating how much you allow for certain activities and that you track its passage during a lesson—will help students understand that you value its wise and careful allocation, and will ultimately teach them to be attentive to it as well.

Showing the clock also has the added benefit of helping you discipline yourself. What teacher hasn't planned five minutes for an activity, for example, but unintentionally spent fifteen on it? What teacher hasn't told her students, “You have ten minutes to work on this,” only to lose track of time and give students twice—or half—that? The result can often be a lesson that ends incompletely; you don't get to the end of the story or the experiment, or you end with only guided practice rather than independent practice.

When you send students off to try a problem for a few minutes, make your best guess as to how long it should take and say, “OK, try one of these on your own. I'll give you three minutes.” Then start your stopwatch or, better, start an overhead stopwatch—perhaps an LCD clock you