perhaps she wondered: Were her stories from the day also relevant to the discussion? Would they meet with approval from her older siblings? When and how might she break in to try?

So I *Cold Called* her, turning to her at a tiny break in the discussion, and saying, "What about you, Goose? Are you still doing astronomy in science?"

She had not volunteered to join the conversation but I wanted her to know her voice mattered, and that her contributions were important. I wanted to show her the importance of her voice to the conversation. If she felt nervous, I wanted to break the ice for her.

There are few things more inclusive you can do than to ask for someone's opinion or input, especially when they do not yet know whether their voice is important in a room. To ask a student who has not volunteered, "What do you think?" is to tell them their voice matters. This idea is called "voice equity" and I first began to use it after a conversation with some colleagues who trained teachers for the Peace Corps in sub-Saharan Africa.

In many parts of the countries where they worked, "Girls are not called on," one of the team, Becky Banton, noted. There's an unspoken gender norm and girls often do not speak up readily. Sometimes the norm comes from their families and sometimes despite their families. The expectation is transmitted invisibly, socially, mysteriously—but inexorably.

"They sit quietly in the back of the room knowing the answers but not actively participating, not raising their hands, not going to the board," Becky noted.

"When our teachers *Cold Call*, especially when they know a girl has a good idea by having circulated first and they say, 'Come forward. Tell us your thinking,' the girls answer and