the practice pays off and students experience success, their ability to expand the duration of their attentive focus will also grow. In other words, as I write about in technique 39, *Silent Solo*, start small.

Finally, according to Ericsson, effective practice requires the giving (and use) of quality feedback from a knowledgeable source. Again, with smaller units of writing, feedback can be given more quickly and students more easily socialized to use it. And of course as they do so and see positive changes, they're likely to become more motivated and to like writing.

**Show Call: Revision's Best Friend**

To bring revision to life, teachers need a tool to make the process visible, and for that there is Show Call (technique 13). The technique is discussed extensively in Chapter Three but it also serves as a great tool for teaching revision. Show Call allows you to make the often private and individualized process of revision legible and meaningful to all the students in your classroom. That aspect is a game changer.

In many classrooms a typical “revision” exchange without Show Call might go something like this:

1. A student, Martina, reads her answer aloud.
2. The teacher says to the class, “Let's give Martina some feedback. What was effective about her answer?”
3. A classmate, working from her limited and fading memory of what Martina wrote, makes a vague observation: “She had really good details.”
4. The teacher tries to elicit a specific example to discuss: “Good. What was good about her details?”