- **Say "You're Ready"**: Remind students that you are giving them more autonomy in appreciation of their maturity and responsibility ... that they've earned it. It's often great to make this a gradual process since it's better to give than to take away.

- **"You Know"**: As you remove scaffolding, add language to make your actions transparent. Remind students that (1) they know what to do, and (2) you are aware of and appreciate this. “You don't need reminders from me anymore... .”

- **A Little Less in Sync**: You can transfer responsibility to students by simplifying a routine or eliminating steps, or by simply allowing them to complete the procedure without requiring that it be done in exact coordination with classmates.

- **Shared Leadership**: Let students assume leadership roles—cuing their classmates to begin stages of a routine, monitoring or evaluating its success, modeling for others, having specific jobs or responsibilities.

A caveat is important here: some teachers assume that because earned autonomy is an effective form of transferred ownership, they would do well to transfer ownership at the outset with a tacit bargain: “I'm going to give you a lot of autonomy, but I want you to show me that you understand how to use it, or I'll take it away.” This is usually less effective. Unless you've started with discipline—teaching and establishing what routines should look like—students won't know what you mean by “how to use it” and will likely struggle. Your choice will then be to remove the autonomy you initially offered—potentially messaging that the systems you now establish are a punishment rather than “how we do things,” and undertaking a more difficult installation (taking away freedom is harder than giving it)—