repeat the prompt with slightly greater emphasis:  
“Everybody, please.”

**Nonverbal Gesture**  

A third kind of in-cue is a nonverbal gesture: a point, a hand dropped, a looping motion with the finger. These have the advantage of speed and don't require you to interrupt the flow of the lesson. They can also be challenging, in that the tone has to be just right or they can seem schoolmarmish. Also there will be times when you might not have everyone's eyes (that is, finishing up notes or simply momentarily distracted), and then you run the risk of losing students in the response.

**Tone Shift**  

A fourth kind of in-cue employs a shift in tone and/or volume. The teacher increases inflection on and often the volume of the last few words of a sentence to imply a question; students recognize this as a prompt and respond crisply. This is often the most efficient form of *Call and Response*; in the long run, it's often the easiest to use—it's seamless, fast, and natural—but it's the hardest to use. It's easier for students to miss a cue and they will only recognize the in-cue if you use *Call and Response* consistently and frequently. If you don't feel immediately confident and comfortable with *Call and Response*, consider beginning, as many teachers do, by mastering a simpler cue.

Many teachers think of *Call and Response* as a technique that is applicable among younger students but less so among older students. They imagine both the ease and benefits of second graders, saying “Nice work, Cheyenne!” in unison as they do in the video *Akilah Bond: Keystone* or