you'll want to think about how to bring the concept of "flow" to your own instruction via the tools in the "Pacing" chapter. Another key question is the cultural and behavioral environment in your classroom. Can you sustain times for thinking free from interruption? If students shout out answers as soon as you ask, you cannot enforce wait time as a key tool that allows students to reflect and focus on questions. If this is the case, start with *Means of Participation*.

As the preceding paragraph reminds me, this book may in the end be first and foremost about building and sustaining attention.

Finally, there is technology to consider. Too many classrooms presume that doing a task with technology or on a screen adds value. Educators think that it is inherently good to wire the classroom. Technology gives us immense power but comes with profound downsides, as well. When you don't use technology, when you prevent it, in fact, is at least as important as when you do use it. School is one of the last places where we agree to mutually not introduce constant distractions. Pencil-to-paper writing, taking notes by hand, reading in hard copy books—there is ample research to support each of these activities as far more beneficial than the same task done on a screen.

## PRINCIPLE 4: MOTIVATION IS SOCIAL

The research that is powerful in understanding learning is not limited to cognitive psychology. Some of the most important insights come from a surprising source: evolutionary biology, or the history of how we came to be as we are. The most important word in that story is "we." While humans evolved to develop individual characteristics that were necessary to our survival—large brains, opposable thumbs, the ability to stand, and so on—our