In this chapter, I'll discuss ways to capture and manage the kind of momentum you can see in Sadie's class. Because you sometimes need to stick with an activity for a longer period of time, I'll also describe some tools to frame activities (slow or fast) so that you can be more effective at helping students get lost in rigorous work (and lose track of the passage of time), regardless of how long you actually spend on an activity.

The tools of pacing can be broken into two groups. The first involves varying the *types* of activities your students engage in during a lesson, the goal being to cause dynamic changes in student thinking and participation by engaging them in different ways. The second set of skills involves managing activities and the *transitions* between them to ensure clear, decisive, and noticeable shifts—the illusion of speed. Many of these tools deal in perception—managing the illusion of speed, maximizing mileposts by making beginnings and endings visible so that students are more aware of the changes around them.

A final note: Generally, speed is exciting and change is interesting, but as with most good things it's best in moderation and balance, so it's useful also to think of the limits of speed. My colleague Chi Tschang once mentioned that too much passivity wasn't the only way students could get distracted. “If there are two (or three) highly active kinesthetic activities in a row, the class's energy level can shoot off the charts, and kids can lose focus.” Too much speed can be as problematic as not enough. The goal is balance. And the good news is that the tools of pacing can often make what you choose to do feel dynamic and engaging, even when at its core, it's reflective, deliberate, methodical, and even slow.

# TECHNIQUE 27: CHANGE THE PACE