“She's going to try to impose her negative beliefs onto Macbeth,” Ashanti explains.

Ashanti's first answer was in many ways just as good. In some settings it might have been better. Notice that Beth is clearly expressing appreciation of Ashanti's original answer. She's merely helping her ensure that she's also ready to prove her bona fides by taking it up a level if she needs to. Her request for elevated discourse suggests the quality she sees in Ashanti's thinking.

Collegiate Format, in other words, refers to moments when teachers cause students to practice elevating their discourse and allows them to express their belonging and readiness to contribute in even the most advanced contexts.

# TECHNIQUE 19: WITHOUT APOLOGY

The belief that students can't do an assignment or that content will be too difficult or uninteresting to students can slip unintended into our classrooms ... and mindsets. *Without Apology* offers reminders of some ways that can happen and some language that can be useful in preventing it.

## Apologies for Content

When I returned to campus at Hamilton College after studying abroad my junior year, every other class in my major was full except *British Romantic Poets* with Patricia O'Neil. There could not have been a topic less compelling. I imagined a semester of highbrow recitations on the nature of love, but I needed the credit for my major, and so I walked reluctantly and, if I am honest, a little sullenly into the single best class I took in college.