the teacher was teaching, being slow to start work or follow directions, showing lack of respect for peers or teacher, not arriving to class with necessary materials, and using mobile devices to be chronic problems in many classrooms. “The findings in this report are deeply worrying,” Her Majesty's Chief Inspectorate wrote, “not because pupils' safety is at risk ... but because this type of behavior has a detrimental impact on the life chances of too many pupils. It can also drive away hard-working teachers from the profession.”7

And yet, there is still more to the story. Unnecessary suspensions are a chronic problem in schools and they, too, can have cascading consequences for students who are suspended—they miss class and fall further behind; they are then more likely to drop out of school or become further disengaged. That said, permitting the behaviors that lead to suspension should not be an option, for reasons reflected in the data mentioned earlier. At least two steps are central—and often overlooked—in addressing this challenge. The first is that schools must become more inclined to use teaching as a response when students are disruptive. To that end, my colleague Hilary Lewis has developed a Dean of Students' curriculum, for example. It offers robust and productive lessons that provide replacement behaviors and opportunities for developing knowledge and sustaining reflection in place of mere punishment when students behave in a disruptive or counterproductive manner.8 The other step is for teachers to develop the capacity to prevent issues from escalating to the point where students require such disciplinary measures. Calmly and efficiently resolving the natural tensions that arise in the classroom is a core skill of a master teacher. Prevention and deescalation are almost always preferable to a post-event response, no matter how good.