rather than, say, projecting a version she created in advance. This causes her to be doubly attentive to pace—she understands the time that students need for tasks because she's doing them herself. That said, only teachers with strong established class cultures can write while still scanning for follow-through and behavior, so while it's ideal to write along with students, having prewritten notes that you narrate is acceptable if your culture is still developing. It will give you less to manage in your own working memory and let you observe more accurately. Just be sure to go slowly. And work toward the sort of live modeling Sadie uses.

Watching this video as a team, we also noted how important planning was. Having a clear sense of what students should write (and possibly even having written out an exemplar version of their notes beforehand to guide you) will help make the notes organized and thoughtful. If you're figuring out how to structure the notes or what to write in real time, the result is likely to be confusion.⁹ In a later interview Sadie noted how important it is for her to think through in advance exactly what she wants in her notebook. Turns out she keeps two! One she fills out in advance, so she knows what to write. The second she completes along with her students so she can model and describe the process to them in real time.

Throughout the video, you'll also notice how carefully Sadie scans to make sure students feel accountable to follow-through. She is sending the message “I care about you getting this down and I'm watching to make sure you do.” As we discuss in *Radar and Be Seen Looking* (technique 53) this makes it so much more likely that the students will, in fact, make sure to get every note down. You can see Sadie looking several times and even carefully adjusting the projector at one point to make sure students can see