- Students apply what they've learned about “showing, not telling” by writing three sentences about the experience of a character named Jonas as he rides a roller coaster (without ever saying he rode a roller coaster).
- Students independently solve a set of problems involving systems of equations.
- Students write a summary of the important ways daily life in eighteenth-century America was different from today.

Independent practice is often assigned in large chunks and at the end of the lesson in the “you have till the end of class to get started on this” variety. That’s not wrong, but it can also be allocated in smaller pieces, mid-lesson. Imagine Christine Torres adding a bit of it at the end of her vocabulary lesson: “Take three minutes to write a series of sentences, each one using one of these three new vocabulary words correctly.” Or Sadie McCleary in the middle of notes: “Tonight you’ll have a set of problems to do for homework, but see if you can set this problem up on your own now. You don’t have to solve it, just set it up correctly. One minute. Go.”

Shifting into IP is also a great way to slow things down while you are maintaining flow. That is, the tension between attention and novelty is captured in the idea of shifting (change) into independent practice (highly focused).

**Activity 4: Reflection and Idea Generation**

Reflection often looks like IP, but it serves a different purpose. In IP, students execute work they know how to do on their own. In reflection, students are given time to think in a more open-ended fashion about things they are in the