student to embed the second answer in the original answer and express them as a complete thought.

“Every input in a function has a unique output,” her student says. She's not just demonstrated understanding, she's practiced creating an elegant and concise expression of a complex idea in the midst of discussion and she’s further specified her point in adding the word “every” of her own accord.

In another interaction she asks a student, “Is this a linear function?”

“Yes,” the student replies.

“Why?”

“Because it forms a straight line.”

“All right. Say it in a complete sentence and do not use ‘it,’” Jasmine replies. This requires the support of a classmate who ultimately arrives at: “The equation represents a linear function because the points are in a straight line on a graph.”

I hope it's not necessary to add that an argument in favor of frequent practice at sentence formation is not an argument for reflexively asking for answers in complete sentences. As always, judgment applies. Too much of a good thing can make it a bad thing. But please don't overlook the influence of oracy—the ability to express oneself clearly, fluently, and grammatically in speech. Elegant and concise expressions of a complex idea offered in the midst of discussions, along the lines of what Jasmine's student creates, make a student stand out in a class and feel the confidence to express her ideas.

Further, as I discuss elsewhere, it is important to recognize that the data is sadly clear: students read less and less, and the trend is going in the wrong direction. Reading is in a