Hand-raising is also contagious. When students see their peers eagerly volunteering, a norm is established that the classroom is a safe, engaging place that others want to be a part of, and the incentive to participate spreads around the room. “The norms we hold arise predominantly from our observation of others,” says Peps Mccrea. And making a decision to engage with the content publicly affirms that a student thinks being a part of the group and its activity is worthwhile. It is a referendum on the worthiness of the class or the lesson.

For teachers, the sight of a host of volunteers means not having to try to drag participants into the conversation. Few things make time move more slowly, even in a staff meeting, than a question hanging in the air as we all avoid each other's eyes. The seconds lengthen as everyone shifts uncomfortably in their seats.

Much of what we think about a classroom when we observe it is in fact a reading of the semiotics of hand-raising: Are students eager to speak? Are hands sparse and reluctant? Do students speak without raising their hands at all?

*All Hands* helps you manage aspects of student hand-raising to maximize the benefits of its influence on pacing and engagement and shape students' perception of what's happening in the classroom.

**Hands Down**

It may sound counterintuitive (particularly in a technique called *All Hands*), but the act of putting your hand down is also important: It says that one question has been answered and a new one is coming. It inserts a milestone and causes students to perceive separate events. An undifferentiated stretch of time in which the class was “talking about the government” becomes a question about the Executive Branch followed by a question about the