causing the problem. Her economy of language is also great.

## Intervention 4: Private Individual Correction (PIC)

The next level of intervention is a *private individual correction*. When you have to name names, you can still make use of privacy. And when you need to take more time with a student, you can make it less invasive by asking the class to work independently, or by making your intervention at a time when it’s easy to be offstage.

That was one of the strategies I suggested a master teacher might try, especially if Roberta had not responded to earlier less invasive efforts to get her on task—“Please take thirty seconds to review the definition of the Civilian Conservation Corps with your partner. Go!”11—And then make a brief intervention that was as private as possible. “Roberta, I can tell you’re tired, but class is too important for me to allow you to sleep. Open up your notebook to a clean sheet of paper. Your heading should say ‘Great Depression.’ I’ll be back to check on you in thirty seconds.”

Here, with your voice dropped to show you are not trying to make something public out of it, the intervention is likely to be more effective, especially if you are careful to describe the solution, not the problem (see *technique 52*, *What to Do*) and to emphasize purpose (“This is important for you to learn”) over power (which is why something like “When I ask someone to sit up, I expect to see them do it” is generally ineffective).

You can see Josh Goodrich, then of Oasis South Bank in London, make a private individual correction in the video *Josh Goodrich: Let’s Get to It*. Most of his students are working industriously but one student has just not been able to get himself going. Josh spots him and walks over, dropping his voice to a whisper. “I need to see you writing