# TECHNIQUE 35: CALL AND RESPONSE

*Call and Response* has two parts: a teacher asking a question or sharing information and the whole class responding aloud in unison to answer the question or repeat the phrase—for emphasis or to help encode it in memory. If you are doing *Retrieval Practice*, for example, sprinkling in a few opportunities where everyone responds increases memory building.

*Teacher:* What do we call it when two very different characters are put side by side for emphasis?  
*Class:* Juxtaposition!

Asking your class to answer or repeat in unison can also be a great change of pace that can expand participation and build energy and momentum. You can see Christine Torres using it at the beginning of the vocabulary section in her Keystone lesson. She introduces a new vocabulary word and asks her students to repeat it as a class.

*Christine:* The first word we're going to learn is the word *implore*. Implore on two—one, two ...  
*Class:* Implore!  
*Christine:* And the word “implore” means what? Read it for me, please, loud and proud ... [taking hands] ... Jovon?

Why use *Call and Response* here? First it gives every student the opportunity for a bit of practice. The practice isn't exactly *Retrieval Practice* but rather pronunciation, which is important, especially with vocabulary. If students aren't confident saying a word, if they don't know how to pronounce it, they'll be much less likely to use it or attend to it as they are reading. Students tend to skip over words they can't pronounce.^14^ So you'll notice then that every time Christine introduces a new word the whole class