day without prompting. This lets you collect it seamlessly, and collecting it at the start of every class tacitly underscores its importance.

- Put your *Do Now* (the second part of this routine) in the same place every day: on the board, on an interactive handout, or in the packet. The objectives for the lesson, the agenda, and the homework for the coming evening should be on the board already, also in the same predictable place every day.

As part of *Strong Start*, establishing the routine of the *Do Now* is critical. A *Do Now* enables you to maximize instructional time, build industrious habits, and make use of a discrete block of time when your students can practice and thus sustain and build their proficiency with skills they've already mastered. This issue—making sure students don't lose through disuse what they'd once mastered—is one of the hidden challenges of teaching.

I discuss the details of an effective *Do Now* in technique 20.

## TECHNIQUE 48: HABITS OF ATTENTION

“What few people ever appreciate is how central attention is for every function we perform,” writes reading researcher Maryanne Wolf. “What we attend to is ultimately what we learn,” concurs Peps Mccrea. It is the unheralded “gatekeeper” of learning. The ability to sustain focus and concentration is the unacknowledged source of many students' success, and the inability to attend is the undoing of others.

“Neuroscience reminds us that before we can be motivated to learn what is in front of us, we must pay attention to it,” says Zaretta Hammond. “The hallmark of an independent