*formal register*, using their body language and tone to emphasize the importance of what they're saying. This might mean doing some of the things Arielle and Denarius were doing: standing symmetrically, and with an upright posture, slowing the cadence of speech, minimizing inflection, and articulating each word with intentional clarity. Or modulating movements slightly. When Arielle and Denarius move during a register shift, they do so with poise and purpose. They reduce the amount and scope of hand gestures. They are often deliberately still. These things send a clear message that what they're saying is important and deserves attention and follow-through.

This *formal register* contrasts with the *casual register*, which signals relaxed openness and but also optionality—to be casual is to say *Take it or leave it* or *We're just chatting here*. When teachers assume a casual register, we often observe them standing with a relaxed posture. If they're very casual, they might be leaning against a wall or piece of classroom furniture. They often allow their words to run together, the words coming fast like raindrops, each hard to differentiate from the previous with absolute clarity, and their range of inflection varies widely.

Teachers often use some version of a more casual register when delivering content. For example, to become animated in an art class when you talk about shading and cross-hatching is to express enthusiasm and energy for these methods, and students commonly respond to enthusiasm and energy. To state the obvious, a range of casual registers exists. Each person's register is different, qualitatively but also quantitatively: versions of casual speech can communicate everything from “Oh, man, I looove this passage,” to “Let us relax a bit and take pleasure in reading the novel aloud for a moment.” Some teachers rarely use the casual register at all and maintain, quite successfully, an air of seriousness and formality