join in activities. And of course why procedures and routines are so powerful—they start by norm setting. “The biggest mistake” teachers make, Tom Bennett writes in *Running the Room*, is “to wait for behavior to occur and then react to it.” The best teachers prevent counterproductive behavior in the first place.

A final note. The strength of a norm's influence “depends on how much we feel a part of and identify with those exhibiting the norms” writes McCrea. We are motivated by belonging. The last principle I will discuss in this chapter is relationships, which obviously are profoundly important. But it is worth remembering, too, that a student's sense of belonging to a culture is different from his or her relationship with the teacher. By joining with peers in actions and feeling honored, supported, and respected by them, students will do many of the things that some educators presume they will only do if a teacher inspires them. Again relationships matter—but the peer-to-peer cultures we build through the norms students perceive are at least as important.

## PRINCIPLE 5: TEACHING WELL IS RELATIONSHIP BUILDING

A common belief among teachers is that they must build relationships with students before they can make progress teaching them. “Students won't care what you say,” an oft-repeated aphorism goes, “until they know that you care.” The presumption is that students can't learn from someone who doesn't care about them and the result is often teachers seeking to connect with students and show their caring *so they can teach them*. That statement is informed by good intentions, but still mistaken in important ways. Should students know and feel that we care about them? Absolutely. Do relationships matter? Yes, of course—often