World War I military tactics, Gilhool would remind us of von Schlieffen's words with a brief dramatization (except in cases where we remembered to do it first).

These jokes all happened in less than a second. That was part of the fun. Mr. Gilhool was also teaching with substance and pace while the inside jokes were coming at you fast, so you had to be paying attention or you'd miss the moment when he made a brief motion like he was weighing something on scales when he mentioned any philosopher's name,7 which was why everyone around you was laughing. (See note 7 for an explanation.) Part of what made Mr. Gilhool great was that we were learning a ton and part of it was getting the joke. These things were synergistic; so were the memory aspects. For what it's worth I still sometimes say “Amsterdam” to this day and more importantly I still remember the Schlieffen Plan. Humor is powerful, especially when it is *used in the service of learning via small recurring inside jokes*.8

I'd like to make mention of the importance with *Joy Factor* of “being you.” I could probably come up with a few inside jokes—my children might weigh in on the small likelihood of their being funny—but I cannot and could not not sing. Which is important to recognize and respect. No singing for some of us. Steer carefully with humor if you can't pull it off.

I mention this also because I'm about to discuss a video of a teacher who is brilliant at what he does and when I watch him I know I could not do those things. Joyful things are hard to force. The message of the video *Darren Hollingsworth: Rabble* is that enthusiasm matters. Enthusiasm can look a lot of ways. It doesn't have to be as extroverted as Darren's but his is certainly magic to listen to. He's greeting students passing in the hallway and at the *Threshold* (see [technique 47](#)) before class at Great