**Pre-Call:** In Pre-Call, you reveal to the student you call on that your *Cold Call* is intentional by letting them know in advance that you will be asking them to speak. Christine Torres does this during her Keystone lesson when she tells Makaye during the *Turn and Talk*, “I’m coming to you to share.” This tips a student off that you will *Cold Call* them. This can allow extra time to prepare or to imply that their idea is especially worthy, thus building positivity. You could also use pre-call before students have completed their work to incentivize effort. “I’m going to call on you for question #4. Make sure you’ve taken time to double-check it.” You can also occasionally use it to signal discussion dynamics from the outset. For example, after a few minutes of writing about how the protagonist is changing, you might kick off the conversation by saying, “Can’t wait to hear your thoughts. Let’s start the discussion with Jasmine, then Carlos, and then Imani. Make sure you build off each other and use your *Habits of Discussion* …”

Teachers are sometimes concerned that using *Cold Call* may be counterproductive by making students anxious. It’s important to be aware of students’ concerns and also to do our best to assuage their anxieties. I very rarely see a student who cannot adapt relatively quickly—almost never in classrooms where *Cold Call* has been rolled out positively and according to the principles I describe in this chapter. There is not much to be anxious about in being asked questions by a caring adult.

That said, no two human beings are the same and you may at some point have a student who struggles with *Cold Call*. I offer two bits of guidance in such a case: first, an extra bit of relationship building goes a long way. Speaking to a student privately and reassuring them of your appreciation