Yarmouth Academy in Great Yarmouth, England. His banter is priceless. Consider the student to whom he says, “Are you Mr. Pellow's brother?” He's new to the school and suddenly feels known, picked out of the mass of students in the hallway, called a “top man.” (But also, à la *Warm/Strict*, reminded that “Yes, sir” is the proper response to an adult.9) The students are greeted joyfully, playfully, warmly, individually, and by name as they enter. Stopped and called —tongue in cheek—“a rabble” because the line is not tidy, but they're also expected to fix the line and come in properly. There's joy and there's high expectation and regularly the twain shall meet.

Most people can't be Darren but everyone can find a version of themselves that evokes a unique form of joy. And it's worth remarking on the power of the happiness whatever form it takes. “Students primed to feel happy before taking math tests far outperformed their neutral peers,” Shawn Achor writes in the *Happiness Advantage*. “Our brains are wired to work best when we are happy.” So simply smiling, and saying, “I think you'll enjoy this lesson today,” can be almost as good a starting point.

## Notes

1. In his short, elegant, and immensely useful book *Motivated Teaching*. I recommend it unreservedly.

2. Carroll says this in a video the Seahawks produced called [Practice Is Everything](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NMLa6fM10KA).

3. A technique called *Explain Everything* is highlighted in the first edition of this book. The technique helps students understand how what you and they are doing in the classroom will advance them academically. For more