There's more value in making activities end crisply and clearly—a skill I call the *clean finish*—than just time management. Ending on cue establishes a clear and discernible transition point from one activity to the next and can actually help students maintain the continuity of their thinking across tasks. Students are better able to carry what is in their working memory from one activity to the next if the transition is efficient and our language is clear. Consider the example in the previous paragraph. You've said to your students, “You have three minutes to reflect in writing: Who is the hero, and how do you know?” If you're going to transition from writing to whole-class discussion or a *Turn and Talk*, you want to minimize disruption in the shift between activities so students can remember the insights they just developed. You want the writing to end on cue, in a single moment, so that you can immediately start looking forward to your next step without anyone losing their train of thought. If your transition from writing to discussion is fast—a few seconds at most—then the ideas that students had before the transition are more likely to cross over to the second activity.

As the three allocated minutes of writing come to a close, you might provide a preliminary reminder that you'll be wrapping up soon: something like “I'll need pencils down in twenty seconds. Try to finish that last thought.” When you get to the end of the allocated time, ideally there'd be a signal. The timer would go off and you'd say, “I hear the timer, and that means pencils down and eyes up, please.” The icing on the cake is that crisp, visible transitions also affect pacing. The milepost is bright and clear, and students can see it passing. Better still, when the milepost is clear, you can also connect the pieces of the lesson together through use of segues, language that highlights the most important threads of the lesson that tie multiple activities