caring but confidence. As a result, things were pretty crisp and class time was spent on the activities as planned.

But here was my favorite part. As he reviewed a portion of the directions, Torian said, “No need to track me; you can just read along on the page in front of you.”

Later he summarized the directions and used that phrase again in a warm and quiet voice, “No need to track me.” So students read along.

I love that phrase … “No need to track me.” It does several things at once.

First, it reminds students that there is an intact expectation in the classroom that listeners track speakers. But it also shows intentionality on Torian's part. A really useful rule of thumb for managing a classroom is *Because you can does not mean you must*. Could Torian enforce the expectation that students track him while he gave direction? Yes. Must he? No. And in fact he wanted them reading the directions, not looking at him in this case. Or perhaps he wanted to give them an inch of extra flexibility because they were so on-point. He gave them permission not to follow the default while reminding them that it was still the default—a perfect and elegant way to prevent ambiguity. But he also reminded them that the lack of tracking was intentional and not an accident. The system and the exception coexisted happily and his phrase allowed Torian to turn off the tracking default temporarily while reinforcing it as an expectation.

Let's close then with two examples of what classrooms with strong *Habits of Attention* look like. First, check out the Keystone video of BreOnna Tindall's classroom. Her students look at each other as they share their thoughts about *The Narrative of the Life of Frederick Douglass*. You can feel their confidence as their ideas are validated by the