Students jumped in gamely. The idea was to help students see the impact of personification—that it made the storm seem alive, like a monster perhaps, but students' responses were vague. “The original was more descriptive,” one student opined. “It made you feel things more,” said another. They struggled to look carefully at the differences in word choice and I struggled to help them. We were fumbling around as if in a dust storm ourselves.

Afterwards, Colleen Driggs, who’d been observing, advised: “Focus on perception first. Ask them to start by observing the differences they see between the two sentences. Then ask them to analyze.”

This was simple but brilliant. My first question should have simply been: “What differences do you see between the two sentences?” This would have caused students to describe (and see) the changes first and then think about their impacts. I needed to start by making sure they saw the difference and then ask why it mattered. Understanding almost always starts with perception … for me, as well as my students.

Colleen caused me to see the opportunity in shifting to perception-based questions. I’d been asking application and discovery questions. By helping me to see how a perception question was different, she allowed me to then think about how to use it. In part that’s why I suggest occasionally asking yourself, “What kind of question did I use there? What was its purpose? Might I have used a different type of question?”

**TECHNIQUE 32: PHRASING FUNDAMENTALS**