When we think about writing that is part of the process of learning and mastering content, we see teachers use three primary types.

One of them, developmental writing, I'll define in technique 41, *Art of the Sentence*. For now I want to define a concept called *formative writing* and compare it to the more common *summative writing*. The technique *Everybody Writes* is about using *formative writing* prompts frequently throughout class.

*Formative writing* is writing in which students seek to decide rather than explain what they think. The purpose is to use writing as a tool to think: to develop and discover new insights rather than to justify an opinion they already have. In contrast, the purpose of *summative writing* is to explain or justify the writer's opinion and often to include evidence to create a supporting argument. *Summative writing* says: *Here is what I think and why*. To complete a summative writing task, students must already know what they think and be ready to marshal evidence and select an appropriate structure to make a cogent argument.

*Summative writing* is probably the most common form of analytical writing done in schools, in part because it looks like—and therefore (we often think) must prepare—students for the sorts of questions they are asked on assessments.

Again, in *summative writing* you have to know what you think before you start; in *formative writing* the purpose is to find out. Here's a gallery of *summative* and *formative* prompts from different subjects, placed side by side for comparison:

| | **Formative Prompts** | **Summative Prompts** |
|---|---|---|