*neutral case.* There are merely cases of greater or lesser intentionality. A classroom where students react with disinterest to their classmates’ comments is no more “natural” than one like Christine's where they react with encouragement. One is just harder to create.

Later we sent our cameras to Christine's classroom and among the things we cut from the video was a series of tiny moments where Christine did some version of what she had done when she sang, “Don't talk to the wall 'cuz the wall don't care” and socialized her students to speak audibly and to one another. “Loud and proud” was how she most often put it.

It would be hard to understand how she does that—the speed, the tone, the variation in the phrases she uses—if you didn't see a series of examples in rapid succession. You need a montage—a series of moments when she took those actions spliced together tidily. But if you only saw the montage you'd only get part of the picture. You'd also need a taste of what I'd seen and felt standing in the back of Christine's classroom that first morning—a sense for how rigorous her teaching was and of the love her students felt from and for her. You'd need to see those things to understand how her use of *Format Matters* ([technique 18](#), which includes pushing students to speak audibly) interacted with the other things she did. So we added the keystone videos, which you can read descriptions of in the introduction. They are often taken in classrooms from which you can also see shorter, more focused clips that demonstrate a specific technique; my hope is that watching the Keystone videos will give you the bigger picture.

* * * * * * *

That was where this version of the book stood when, suddenly, 2020 happened.