Here is a simple observation about teaching: What we are looking at as our students are working is a stream of data. But this is in fact two statements at once. The first—that it is data we are looking at—tells us that it contains the seeds of insight if we think analytically and purposefully about it. The second—that it is a stream—tells us that the information may come at us fast and furious; there will often be too much to make sense of all at once, or even to remember. Happily, making a few small changes to what you do when, and before, you observe student work can help you make more sense of the data stream.

The first change is to track what you see in writing. You can see Denarius Frazier doing this in the clip *Denarius Frazier: Remainder*, which you watched at the beginning of the chapter. He is carrying a clipboard, and as he moves around the room he makes slight notations—about a consistent kind of error he's seeing or about students who can provide strong examples, or who will need extra support. Just this simple move is a game-changer.

If we think we're going to circulate around the room making “mental notes” about thirty students' work on two problems with four steps each, while perhaps taking a few questions and offering occasional encouragement, and still be able to remember at the end of it what the most common error was and which students struggled where, we are kidding ourselves. Working memory is small; even the slightest distractions cause us to forget what we're trying to remember and in an environment as complex as a classroom working memory is quickly overwhelmed. In such a setting there's really no such thing as taking mental notes.

Denarius, however, is able to give individualized feedback to each student, note their progress, and at the same time discern the common error, or the most germane topic for