An effective discussion needs a shared purpose—on two levels. It needs a specific topic participants tacitly agree to discuss, and it needs a shared mental model of what it means to discuss something. If people are just trying to prove they are right, it's a debate. Discussion should involve some reflection along the lines of, what have I, or we, learned here? And a discussion is often better if it's cohesive. “If you chase five rabbits you catch none,” a friend of mine says, meaning that if you try to talk about everything, you resolve nothing.

With that in mind, here's a key moment from a discussion in Rue Ratray's English class, taped when he taught at Edward Brooke Charter School in Boston. The discussion was about Lois Lowry's novel *The Giver*, specifically the relationship of individuals to authority. The community was very accepting of government dictates, students observed. Then a student named Sofia commented that Jonas was an exception. He was “not willing to accept or agree with the ideas of the government.” Rue called on another student, Khalid, but Khalid suddenly shifted the subject.

“Carol and I talked about how we liked this phrase that …”

“Wait a minute, Khalid,” Rue enjoined. “What do you think about what Sofia said?”

When Rue redirected Khalid before he could share his idea, he risked disrupting his train of thought. He might forget what he had been about to say. Why do that? The reason is that Rue's eye was on the long game—he was reminding Khalid that a comment too disconnected from the previous comment or topic detracted from discussion even if it was interesting to him. Rue was teaching students a critical aspect of having a successful discussion by reminding them of the self-discipline necessary to discussion. Effective contributors to a discussion recognize when changing the subject detracts from the overall conversation. Giving