evolutionary success was primarily a group endeavor—the result of a profound instinct toward coordinated group behavior.

To win out over other groups, members of groups that survived had to prove themselves strong and able as individuals but also at least as capable in their ability to form loyal and cohesive groups. “The outcome of between-group competition is determined largely by the details of social behavior within each group in turn,” writes the biologist Edward O. Wilson in *The Social Conquest of Earth*. It was important to be strong individually—there was competition within groups too—but a strong individual not embraced by a group was doomed. What primarily determined which humans would thrive and survive were traits such as “the tightness of the group, and the quality of communication and division of labor among its members. Such traits are heritable,” Wilson concludes, and so who we are is a “consequence of individual selection and group selection.”

Thanks to this dual-level selection—what evolutionary biologists call parallel processes of group and individual competition—our characteristics are complex, fascinating, and sometimes contradictory, not least because we are usually not aware of what we seek. After all, the point is that we evolve to do what has helped us survive without being aware of it.

The term “prosocial” describes animals that engage in individual behavior that benefits the larger group. Few animals will do this. The term “eusocial” goes a step further and describes species that coordinate and sacrifice to an even greater extent. And it is far rarer. Wilson suggests that we are among only two eusocial mammals.17 Lions and wolves will coordinate to hunt, but they will not sacrifice their lives for the good of the group; they will not