writes it on the board, it means *This is important.*[^12] Students should know to write it down.

The best way to start students on the path to autonomous note-taking is to make your overhead a mirror image of the graphic organizer you give to students to take notes on. As you fill in a blank, they fill in a corresponding blank. You fill out the projected worksheet on the board and say, “Make your paper look like mine.” Even as students earn more autonomy, having your overhead match the format in which they are taking notes allows you to model what note-taking—one of the most important skills for any student—should look like.

Gradually, students should develop note-taking independence, filling out longer and longer passages of their graphic organizers on their own, before you ultimately ask them to take notes on a separate sheet of paper as Sadie does. But know that it may take time before students are ready to take full responsibility for such a critical piece of the process and that along the way they’ll need lots of feedback. At her previous school, Sadie notes, when students got to the point where they were simply taking their own notes without guidance, she used to collect class notes to give them feedback and/or to share exemplars to compare their own notes to.

## TECHNIQUE 23: ACCOUNTABLE INDEPENDENT READING

Independent reading is critical to student success in every subject. It is a base operating system that supports nearly every academic endeavor. Even a problem-set in math assesses, in some part, students' ability to independently read a short passage about drawing colored beans