Their results often closed the gap between kids born to poverty and kids born to privilege.

Test scores of course are an imperfect measure. They tell us a lot but not nearly everything and are often best used to generate and test hypotheses: You watch a series of teachers with unusually strong results and start to see trends and commonalities. So whenever possible, I tried to use as much additional data as I could get, and to look for signals that were durable over time—sustained results as opposed to one-time blips. When a school was successful for a long time, I also considered the principal's guidance and input in sourcing teachers. Although there are data to suggest that the average principal is only so-so at identifying the best teachers, very good principals are, of course, different from the average. One could argue that the reason they are successful is their ability to understand whose teaching is especially effective. And over time I came to rely on my team—by now they've spent hundreds and hundreds of hours studying and discussing classroom video—to spot moments that would be useful for teachers to study—moments that were replicable, and adaptable, and likely to help teachers help students thrive.

## THE KEYSTONES

As I mentioned in the Preface, one major change in this third edition of the book is the inclusion of longer Keystone videos that show how a selection of truly exceptional teachers use and combine techniques over a sustained arc of their lesson. Sharing these videos shows how the pieces fit together and helps balance the inevitable distortion of seeing only a single technique in sharp focus. Here's a list of the Keystone videos and some of the things I appreciate about the craft of the teachers they profile. I hope you will watch them multiple times. If you're the head of a school or