of them and your belief in their ability to handle any of your classroom expectations is a good first step. Second, offer initial modifications; for example, let the student know in advance via a pre-call or perhaps a nod that a *Cold Call* is coming the first few times you use it. If that's the case I would also suggest engineering the student’s first experiences so they are sure to be successful—and the student is able to answer and feel quietly successful (as opposed to heaping on a lot of praise, which might only make the student self-conscious). “Please read the directions for me, Chris,” is a great starting point (the answer is right in front of them). It’s worth noting that the most effective response to anxieties—even those far more pronounced and debilitating than a bit of nervousness—is “gradual systematic exposure” to anxiety-inducing phenomena, as Jonathan Haidt and Greg Lukianoff note.10 The solution to a child who’s afraid to jump into the pool is to encourage him to do so in an environment of psychological safety. The accomplishment of the task usually conquers the fear.

## Principle 5: Connect Your Cold Calls

From the teacher's perspective much of *Cold Calling* is about deciding strategically who will talk (though it may appear random from the student's seat). But in many ways *Cold Calling* is also about socializing *listening*, and the fifth principle is about maximizing that potential. Unbundling and using follow-on prompts are two ways to do that.

When you “unbundle,” you break up larger questions into a series of smaller questions, ideally with contingent answers, and distribute them to multiple students. This can help build energy and momentum in your pacing; it also builds a culture of peer-to-peer accountability. Answering one part of the question requires students to listen and react to the previous answer. Consider, first, Ms. Martin