things in action in a classroom. I suggest you do so in two parts, first watching Christine Torres's Keystone video, which shows two broad segments of her lesson, as she first teaches new vocabulary words and then leads a discussion of Lois Lowry's novel *Number the Stars*. Christine's students, I think you will agree, are unusually engaged and attentive: They enthusiastically wrestle with new words and are cerebral, respectful, and attentive in discussing a difficult question. Next watch the video *Christine Torres: Habits of Attention Outtakes* to see a montage of moments extracted from this lesson. Note how important it is that students look at one another, how their body language shows classmates that they belong and their ideas are welcome. Note how attentive, confident, and productive they are as a result.

“Visual cues,” writes James Clear in *Atomic Habits*, “are the greatest catalyst of our behavior. Where we look shapes our attention more than any single factor.”^7 We are often not fully intentional or even conscious of where we look and why, however, so shaping students' habits of looking can lead to a profound change, not only in their actions and cognition, but in those around them. For example, engaging in behaviors that show a speaker that you are listening carefully—nodding, for example, and looking interested—are often self-actualizing. They cause you to pay better attention and cause the speaker to feel a strong sense of affirmation and belonging as well. Note therefore how often—and how deftly—Christine reinforces these things.

There is a strong connection between such behaviors and our ability to build community in the classroom. Belonging^8 is arguably the most powerful motivator there is. Our unconscious brains are “obsessed with it” writes Daniel Coyle in his book, *The Culture Code*, but he adds that the brain “needs to be continually fed by signals of safe connection.” Surveying the research, he notes that