that when a sequence beginning with a student unable or (as we will discuss) unwilling to answer ends with a return in which the student answers successfully the result is progress toward mastery—and a culture that promotes learning.

For now, though, it's most important to focus on Denarius's tone. He's emotionally constant, signaling steady support with his voice and body language: *In this class, we get things wrong and then get them right and we keep moving. That's normal. You're doing fine.* A teacher executing a No Opt Out should avoid indicating frustration at the original response but also, in most cases, go easy on the “awesome awesomeness”—that is, in praising a student's small success so highly that the teacher seems either disingenuous or surprised by the student's success (*OMG, you got it right!*).

In this example, Denarius chooses his words wisely in other ways as well. “About 80 percent of the way there,” he says, which both diffuses any anxiety for Aaron—after all, he's mostly right—and also cues him to attend carefully to Anastasia's response because there's a fair chance that Denarius is coming back to him to close the loop. In some cases—for example, earlier in the year before students have come to understand that Denarius commenting on the almost-ness of the answer is a signal that he is probably going to coming back to with a question—Denarius might be more explicit: “Not quite. Listen to the next answer and I'll come back to you.”

It's worth noting that teachers often promise students they “will come back” to a student when they struggle publicly but, barring their use of No Opt Out, often forget to do so. I suspect this is because (a) our working memory is always taxed when we are teaching, so the longer the amount of elapsed time, the harder it is to remember that a student