out of some building on campus after a class in your major with your mind exploding. Surely if you re-created this activity for your students it would be equally profound. Surely it would add rigor to your class. The challenge is that you were an expert when you explored your way to this insight. You were perceiving far more meaning in each interaction than a novice would. Your students will eventually get to a place where they, too, will derive profound benefit from the open-ended exercise. But until they know more, they are likely to get less out of the experience than you did, and adding it to your lesson won't necessarily make your class equally profound and memorable to your students.

# WORK SAMPLES VERSUS RUBRICS

The message so far: Introduce new content in discrete steps, interleaved with practice and reflection to allow students to manage the load on working memory and gradually begin encoding ideas in long-term memory. But what about content that can't be easily broken into sequential steps? Writing an essay or painting a watercolor, say. They are still tasks that involve mastery of separate elements, but they cannot be easily broken into steps.

One solution is to share an annotated exemplar marked up by the teacher for students to study. In *Embedding Formative Assessment*, Dylan Wiliam and Siobhan Leahy suggest replacing the commonly used rubrics with “work samples” as tools to explain how to complete tasks successfully. This is interesting in part because rubrics, carefully crafted but relatively abstract descriptions of the characteristics of high-quality work, are full of things that are obvious to experts and hidden to novices. They “rarely have the same meaning for students that they do for teachers,” Wiliam and Leahy note. For example, a common