Anticipating errors in the passage from *The Giver* in which Jonas sees color reveals something else about planning for error: There are decisions to be made. Yes, the scene intimates subtly that Jonas can see color. I might want my students to focus on that. But I might decide that it's more important for them to see how disorienting what's happening is to Jonas. Something is wrong, mysterious, unexplained for the first time in his life. He repeatedly attempts to “test” his vision. He breaks the rules to take the apple home and examine it. There are two aspects of the passage that might easily be missed. It might be that students don't need to fully understand that Jonas sees color as long as they recognize how troubling and confusing whatever was happening to Jonas is.

The question of how much to emphasize each of two things students might not understand in a difficult passage might seem arcane to all but English teachers or fellow *The Giver* enthusiasts, but there is a larger point about process that's relevant to all teachers here: I realized that those were two different potential misreadings and two approaches to teaching the passage *because I was trying to think about the errors students might make*. The process of planning for error caused me to better understand the book through a student's eyes. The more I do this, the better I get at understanding the types and causes of student misunderstandings, and the better I get at designing my teaching with that in mind the first time around. It almost doesn't matter if you guess correctly about the mistakes students will make. By predicting them and then noticing whether they occur, you'll get better at seeing your lessons through a student's eyes.

But planning for error is not just identifying the mistakes that might occur. It's planning what you'd do about it too. In my example from *The Giver*, I might go back to the line: “Then [the apple] was in his hand, and he looked at it