you value your classmates). “Sit up” includes a purpose as well, so you *look interested and engaged*. You’ll also notice that I’ve brought in an idea from the *Habits of Discussion* technique, “rephrasing,” but you could drop it if you wanted, perhaps replacing it with something else. Again, I am describing options here because the behaviors described in any acronym (and the expectations) should be carefully thought through at the school or classroom level. My version of STAR may be helpful, but the adaptations you make to it will make it even better.

There’s one other piece that’s needed, though. *Habits of Attention* only work if they become *habits*. You can see how important this is to Christine Torres. Her classroom culture is strong—exceptional, you might argue. It’s warm and encouraging and inclusive of all. It’s fun and funny and scholarly. And yet, she is still shaping and reinforcing and lovingly correcting for *Habits of Attention* all the way through. She strikes a careful balance. If you have to explain and remind every time you want eye contact to validate a speaker, then it will become a constant disruption to the conversation you are trying to honor. But just because things are going well does not mean she forgets about maintaining the environment. She reinforces it lovingly, early, and often with a hint of humor so her reminders are gentle. Having an acronym helps her because it allows for easy abbreviated reminders.

Some details to notice from Christine’s class:
- Frequently she reminds students to track in advance via the language she uses to call on a student, as in segment 1: “What did the girl do in the situation? Track, Etani …”
- Occasionally she narrates the positive to make the norm more visible, as in segment 2: “Track, Azariah.”