For one thing, while I believed I was very observant, I probably was not. Usually I would be looking passively, waiting to be struck by spontaneous observations about what students were doing. This can sometimes be useful, but it meant that I was prone to inattentional blindness— not seeing what was plainly before me—for example, that students were not successfully able to do the task I’d assigned. What I noticed was often a random event. What I gave students feedback on was also likely to be accidental. If on any given day there were ten really important things you could say about students' writing, I might notice something about number seven on the list. Or number nine. The cost was that I wasn’t talking about topics one, two, and three consistently—and sometimes not at all.

And honestly, without a real purpose for what I was looking for, I sometimes allowed myself to become more passive. I really wasn’t looking that carefully. I’d mimic the actions of a carefully observing teacher, nodding approvingly and squinting as if in keen interest, but my mind would wander. I would often be looking mostly for whether my students appeared to be working hard. Their topic sentences were poor and yet I’d walk right past because their pencils were scribbling away. Effort is generally a good thing but it doesn’t guarantee learning. “Never mistake activity for achievement,” the coach and teacher John Wooden advised. Just because students are working hard at a task does not mean they are learning from it. Understanding whether students are making real progress requires more careful observation. Were they using strong active verbs as they scribbled away? Were they able to cite evidence both directly and indirectly?

Compare my well-intentioned but mostly subpar observation to the deliberateness we see in the clip Julia