The first teacher is helping students to see more readily how profuse positive and constructive behavior is, and he is making it more prominent to students by letting them know that he sees and that it matters.

Narrating the positive, though useful, is also extremely vulnerable to misapplication, so here are a couple of key rules:

- Use *Narrate the Positive* as a tool to motivate group behavior as students are deciding whether to work to meet expectations, not as a way to correct individual students after they clearly have not met expectations.

- If you narrate positive on-task behavior *during* a countdown you are describing behavior that has exceeded expectations. You gave students ten seconds to get their binders out and be ready to take notes, but Jabari is ready at five seconds. It's fine to call that out. It's very different to call out Jabari for having his binder out after your countdown has ended. At that point it might seem as though you are using Jabari's readiness to plead with others who have not followed through in the time you allotted.

Another common misapplication would be this: You're ready to discuss *Tuck Everlasting*, but Susan is off task, giggling and trying to get Martina's attention. You would not be using positive framing or narrating the positive effectively if you circum-narrated a "praise circle" around Susan: "I see Danni is ready to go. And Elisa. Alexis has her book out." In this case, I recommend that you address Susan directly but positively: "Susan, show me your best, with your notebook out. We've got lots to do." If you use the praise circle, students will be pretty aware of what you're doing and are likely to see your positive reinforcement as contrived and disingenuous. And they're likely to think