effect on how things pan out in your classroom. This is why building motivation is best done collectively,” writes Peps Mccrea. “Norms are so powerful they override more formal school policies or rules … However their largely invisible and unconscious nature makes them easy to underestimate if not totally ignore.” That there will be norms is “inevitable”; the key is to recognize this and shape them intentionally and positively.18

To modify motivation we must change what our students see and what they perceive as normal, acceptable values.

To be clear, some norm or other will emerge in every classroom. “There is no such thing as a neutral design,” Richard Thaler and Cass Sunstein tell us in *Nudge*. *The environment will shape the behavior of the individuals within it.* We choose the norms or they choose us. And if we want more productive norms, we have to find ways to make them appear universal and more visible.

How does this affect classroom decisions? It reminds us that classrooms are first and foremost cultures that shape the actions and beliefs of the people within them. We have to establish positive prosocial norms that value student work and encourage our pupils to do what will help them succeed and thrive.

Is a culture where students look at the speaker and so reinforce that they care what the speaker is saying “natural”? Of course not. There is no natural case. A good classroom nudges students to scholarly identity through *Habits of Attention* and *Habits of Discussion* (not to mention great lessons, rigorous curriculum, and an insistence on honoring students' time). It ensures that students see their peers eagerly reading and writing as this a great way to get any individual student to want to—or at first, be willing to—read or write. It explains why *Brightening the Lines* is so powerful in causing students to