Powell! I can make it even better!” She's proud, in other words, and eager to show how much else she knows.

What we see here is not just a single *Show Call* that helps students to better see how to solve a problem and how to avoid a common mistake, but a procedure—and the culture to support it—that makes students feel lovingly accountable for their written work and unafraid of having it presented to the class. Paul's example is a road map for the first few times you use the technique; emphasize positivity and make students feel honored by and comfortable with the process.

Over time the goal is to build a culture in which, as we saw in Denarius's class, students understand implicitly that one of the ways they honor a classmate's work is by helping them to see both its success and also how to improve.

You can see this progression of Show Call culture clearly in the video *Ijeoma Duru: Almost-There Work*. Ijeoma is sharing the work of a student named Deborah and starts by asking students to give Deborah some “snaps and shine.” This ideally makes Deborah feel supported; it also, perhaps even more importantly, reminds the class: this is a classmate's work. We'll study it and improve it, but don't forget to be appreciative in your tone and comments as we discuss.

Like Denarius and Paul, Ijeoma uses her “reveal” to shape the culture that surrounds the *Show Call*: “Deborah has some ‘almost there’ work but I want us to work together and use her annotations to fix it,” she says. She then asks students to focus on the second half of Deborah's work and “snap if you see something you agree with.” This is a clever move. Every one of Deborah's classmates just affirmed that, like Fagan, she got plenty right in her answer. Even if there's something to improve on, there's a lot to the good and it's obvious to everyone. Ijeoma next asks a few students to describe what they agree with. This isn't just