plan (and write down) your key questions in advance.⁹ If you do use questions that are thought up in the moment, write them on the board when you can. The visual will help students remain disciplined to answer what you asked, and it will also help you to remember the original question.

## TECHNIQUE 33: WAIT TIME

After asking a question of his class, the typical teacher waits about a second before taking an answer. The challenges and limitations posed by such a habit are significant. The answers the teacher can expect to get after less than a second's reflection are unlikely to be the richest, the most reflective, or the most developed his students can generate. And taking answers after just a second has the effect of systematically encouraging students to raise their hands with the first answer they think of, rather than the best answer. If students wait any longer, someone else will have answered. What's more, taking immediate answers makes it more likely that the teacher will waste time. He will likely have to respond to a poorer answer before he gets a good one. A bit of waiting can often save you time in the end, as it ensures that you start with higher-quality initial answers.

Wait Time is the practice of inserting a short amount of waiting—often just a fraction of a second—before taking an answer. Under ideal circumstances, what happens during Wait Time is thinking, so it's a powerful tool for increasing Think Ratio.

The benefits of waiting a few seconds between question and answer include:

- Allowing more hands to go up
- Enabling a wider range of scholars to raise their hands