elaborate on and add to their initial thinking and so come to recognize what fully correct looks like—the opposite of rounding up. A teacher might use one of the following phrases in response to Kiley's answer about *Romeo and Juliet*:

> "True. They don't like each other. But can you observe a bit more about their relationship?"

> "Good start, Kiley. Can you develop your answer?"

> "Can you elaborate on what you mean by ‘don't like each other,’ Kiley?"

> "Thanks for starting us off, Kiley. Can you talk about the word Shakespeare uses to describe their relationship [that is, *feud*]?"

> "OK. Kiley said the Capulets and Montagues don't like each other. Can we put some more precise language to the task here?"

> "Thanks, Kiley. When you say they don't like each other, is that how they'd describe it?"

> "Thanks for kicking off our discussion, Kiley. Can you point us to some language in the Prologue that can help us get more specific?"

In holding out for all-the-way right, you set the expectation that ideas matter, that you care about the difference between the facile and the scholarly, and that you believe your students are capable of the latter. This faith in your students' ability sends a message that will guide students long after they've left your classroom. They will have been pushed and know they can do it if they push themselves.

There are two excellent examples of holding out for all-the-way right answers in the video *Akilah Bond: Keystone*. As students strive to figure out why Cam is helping Eric in the