appreciative, but she also reinforces expectations for writing.

1:19: Circulating, Emily focuses on engaging student ideas and asks questions to show she's reading carefully. At 1:50, Emily is careful to show appreciation for effort—“Nice job. Keep going.” It's especially important that the last thing students hear is the phrase “Keep going.” This ensures that her appreciation doesn't accidentally promote less follow-through.

You'll also notice that throughout there are long stretches of silence in which to think and work. Emily creates silence—she makes her expectations clear and enforces them—but also honors the silence herself. And of course after these three minutes of silent work, students will have a chance to share their ideas out loud with partners and with the rest of the room. By setting aside this time for silent writing, Emily ensures that students will have time to process and ideas to share.

**TECHNIQUE 40: FRONT THE WRITING**

In many classes, writing serves as a capstone—to a discussion, a demonstration, a lab, a presentation, or some other part of the lesson. It's often right and good and logical that writing comes last. Writing is an ideal tool for synthesizing and processing ideas. But there's also immense value when the writing comes first. *Front the Writing* is about designing lessons so that the writing happens early on.

Consider, first, two common sequences—let's call them RDW and ADW (read-discuss-write and activity-discuss-write). You might do RDW if you were reading a short story with an ambiguous ending. You might finish the last