what was that like for you? ... I think a lot of us are really able to figure out Douglass's tough language.” This might seem like a contradictory thing to say after students have struggled with a key point, but both things are true.

They have made incredible progress. They are often able to read successfully from an immensely challenging text. But tricky passages will emerge. A book's “level of difficulty” is an average. Within it there are sections students can breeze through and sections of special difficulty. To say that students can read a book independently is always a generalization. There are several elements Kirby uses to ensure this segment of independent reading is productive.

First there is the gradual release in the length of the independent reading: starting small and increasing the amount of text as your confidence in students' comprehension grows. If Kirby's students had read the bulk of a chapter instead of starting as they did with just a paragraph or two, it would have been much harder for Kirby to lock in on their understanding of this passage and to use it as a test of their readiness to read similar passages solo. In the long run we want to build students' stamina for independent reading tasks, but it may take time before we know that students are up to the task of reading extended passages with accuracy.

Kirby's clear and specific annotation task—“What is he listing, and why?”—is key. Giving students a focal point allows you to monitor comprehension while they work. For younger students, this might sound like what you hear Dan Cosgrove say in the video *Dan Cosgrove: Earthworm*: “Meet me at the top of page 56 and jot one word to show how the earthworm is feeling.” In a history class, you might prompt, “Underline at least two details about the conditions faced by Revolutionary War soldiers.” Having a clear task also benefits students, guiding them to