and others might call the “we” stage in an overall lesson arc of I do/we do/you do. The class's pace is quick and efficient—the *Cold Calls* are predictable—and Shayna hasn't raised her hand but she also doesn't seem the least bit surprised to be called on. And the tone is supportive.

“Divide [by] two on both sides,” Shayna advises.

“And we're left with what?” Denarius asks. Shayna responds and Denarius sends the class into a *Turn and Talk* (see technique 43) to solve the problem in pairs (“Turn and talk to your partner; I want an answer for theta in thirty seconds”).

Out of the *Turn and Talk*, Denarius *Cold Calls* Deandrea and she's ready with the answer: “Forty-five degrees.” Other students snap to show they agree.

But Denarius wants to test for reliability, to make sure students understand the process Deandrea used to solve. “What do we have to do to get that forty-five degrees? Michael?” It's a *Cold Call*—crucial in checking for understanding, as Denarius is doing here. And it's a good thing he asked because, despite snapping along in support of his classmate, Michael is a bit unclear. “Um … reverse?” he says, before trying again, “Oh, I'm sorry … secant?”

Michael is confused and, rather than waiting for further guesses, Denarius steps in. “We're coming back to you,” he says, warmly and without judgment, before calling on Kayla, who begins: “We have to do the inverse of cosine …” Moments later Denarius returns to Michael: “Why do we have to do the inverse of cosine, Michael?” Whereupon Michael explains the importance of solving algebraically.

Denarius’s tone is supportive throughout, but he also signals normalcy. Of course some students were momentarily confused. Of course Michael got it right in the