see the long-term consequences of this terrible bargain, but teachers should be able to. I hope it is obvious to say that adults who care about young people cannot leave students alone like that and allow them to opt out of learning. That's not love and that's not respect.

Let me be clear—I recognize the complexity of such situations. They reflect Adeyemi Stembridge's observation that “Learning depends on trust that the ground will not give way beneath us, trust that effort is worthwhile.” Fixing a context where some students seek to opt out of learning requires a broad range of remedies. We always have to be building trust, for example—in the processes, in ourselves as teachers, or in the endeavor of school—and seeking to ensure that students who don't yet feel that trust come to do so. We need to build cultures that make students feel safe, successful, and known. Much of this book is about that struggle. It's why robust positive cultures that seek not just to limit negative behavior but build positive pro-learning behaviors like *Habits of Attention* ([technique 48](#)) are so profoundly important. People's actions are shaped, more than any other single thing, by the norms of others around them. When students are asked a question in class, whether they see their peers' encouraging faces supporting them, or the backs of uninterested heads goes a long way toward determining whether they take the risk of revealing what they know and what they don't. Similarly, we have to build cultures of error ([Chapter Two](#)), seek to motivate and inspire, and establish the caring and expectations of *Warm/Strict* ([technique 61](#)).

But even as we do these things, even if we have accomplished them for the majority of students in our classes, the moment will come when a student will not be able to answer or won't want to answer and will choose to opt out. The student will say *I don't know* in one of the ways described above, or will say nothing at all, or will say