One of the core challenges of teaching is that it is very, very hard to create classrooms reliably characterized by psychological safety and where students encourage the best from one another; where, when necessary, students can think deeply amidst quiet and develop their capacity to pay attention; where some students' desire to pursue learning assiduously is honored and supported, even when others don't really feel like it.

It's far easier to say that order doesn't matter, or is counterproductive. It's easier to claim that a teacher's responsibility to be able to judiciously enforce quiet is the same as a craven desire to suppress student voices. It's easier to argue that the exercise of benevolent and necessary authority is a form of authoritarianism and to conflate those similar sounding but very different words. Establishing orderly classrooms is an ideal place for the Band-Aid Paradox.1

Democracy, in a classroom, is problematic when twenty-eight people want to learn chemistry and two want to persist in making hilarious burping noises. The twenty-eight do not require a mere majority to proceed. They need unanimity. One or two students' freedom to make those clever noises or to say no to the idea of listening and following directions is often a *de facto* decision for everyone else in the room. The lesson will not proceed as planned.

This is an age-old challenge but also one that is increasingly difficult to bridge. Our society is the most individualistic on the planet (adapting to its individualism is one of the biggest challenges for students who come here from other cultures) and it is growing more so by the moment. There are precious few times and places where people will accept that they must be willing to constrain their own behaviors and desires for the common good. This