raise each other's young or take care of the aged. Only humans do that, though for what it’s worth humans also compete with fellow group members for food or mates or status.

Since ancient times, intense awareness of what was happening within the group was required to survive—to ensure one's connections and to watch out for potential betrayal, for instance. “The strategies of the game were written as a complicated mix of closely calibrated altruism, cooperation, competition, domination, reciprocity, defection and deceit,” Wilson writes. “The human brain became simultaneously highly intelligent and intensely social… thus was born the human condition, selfish at one time, selfless at another, the two impulses often conflicted.”

The brain is a “social organ” is how Zaretta Hammond puts it in *Culturally Responsive Teaching and the Brain*, but the degree to which this is true is striking. One example is the physiology of our eyes. We are the only primate with sclera—what we call the whites of the eyes. All other primates have dark eyes surrounding the pupils. Why? The answer, many evolutionary biologists think, is that tracking what fellow group members are looking at and thinking about is urgently important. We need to know what the group thinks, where we stand in its hierarchies and alliances, and how each action was received. The information critical to our survival is revealed in furtive glances and fleeting expressions of admiration, dismissiveness, and/or respect. Our eyes have evolved to better reveal the crucial details of approval, acceptance and scorn.

And our deep sociality also shows up in the ways we make decisions. “Social norms” are what we call the unwritten social rules of any group. “The highly social nature of human behavior means that the actions of colleagues and the broader culture of the school will have a persistent