That said, keep in mind that you are shooting for the fastest possible “right version”; if your students go so fast that they get it wrong, it’s better to have them go back, do it slower but just right, and then keep practicing. Once it’s done correctly you can speed it up.

**Little Narration Required.** When it comes to establishing a procedure, using fewer words to manage the execution is preferable. The goal is autonomy, and too many directions from the teacher keeps students from internalizing how to do it on their own. Autonomy is also lost if students need you there to explain each detail.

Further, providing too much verbal support (in the form of hints or reminders) cheapens the sense of satisfaction students get from successfully completing a procedure without your help. Saying less helps them feel more independent and take more ownership of it.

Plan the phrases you want to use at each step to ensure their clarity and efficiency. Use them consistently and with as little other verbiage as possible. Over time, remove verbal reminders and use only nonverbals, which students can refer to only if they need them. In time, remove those reminders as well; only step in to reinforce the procedure if students show you they need it.

**Double Planned.** Plan for what both you *and* your students will do at every step in a procedure. Then walk through the procedure yourself or with peers to make sure it works and there are no unexpected blind spots.

**TECHNIQUE 50: ROUTINE BUILDING**

A beautifully designed procedure is not yet a tool for success in your classroom until it has become habit, and there are six keys to “installing” a routine. *Routine Building* lays the groundwork for success, paving the way via clear