The message is: *How much you know about what you're teaching is a key part of how you prepare.*

## TECHNIQUE 1: EXEMPLAR PLANNING

Teachers and school leaders tend to have an overwhelming response to clips of Sarah Wright's teaching. The video *Sarah Wright: Tio Luis*, shot in her fifth-grade classroom at Chattanooga Prep in Chattanooga, Tennessee, shows why. The joy and purposefulness of Sarah's classroom are striking. Her students, all boys in this case, grin from ear to ear as they dive into a *Turn and Talk* in which they imagine they are the villainous character, Tio Luis, from Pam Muñoz Ryan's *Esperanza Rising*. They write eager, detailed responses. The boys delight in using—sometimes imperfectly but always enthusiastically—rich new vocabulary words and in celebrating a peer's exemplary response. All the while they are locked-in to the novel. Perhaps as you watch you hear a faint echo of Christine Torres's lesson, which we discussed in the introduction to this chapter. And in fact the echo you might hear is not a coincidence. The similarities include the way students are universally engaged in quality learning activities without a second of downtime; the way they seem to think studying this book is just about the greatest thing in the world. And there's one more parallel that's not quite as clear from watching the video but that is at least as profound as any of the other likenesses: Sarah and Christine achieve similar outcomes because they prepare similarly.³

What you see in their classrooms is a product of decisions made hours before the lesson began as much as it is a product of those made in the moment, though of course the two things are related. A prepared teacher is often a happy teacher and a poised teacher—one who can express herself more fully and who makes better decisions in the moment.