require as much bravery of teachers as *Cold Call*, so they can be a starting point for teachers who are anxious about not calling on students without their hands raised. And they can be a fun and easy way to remind your students that it's important for everyone to participate. They might work well with *Retrieval Practice*; the game-ishness of stick pulling is more of a match for content that is organized around specific questions than a discussion that relies on the continuity of comments. But please be clear: Popsicle sticks are not the same as *Cold Call*.

The second misconception has to do with a technique often called “hands down,” in which the teacher tells students to put their hands down because she is *Cold Calling*. Do this too many times and students may not raise their hands. Again my argument is not that “hands down” is not a valid approach—it's an adaptation of *Cold Call*—but I think it is one with limitations, so it's important to understand the differences.

One of the primary purposes of *Cold Call* is to build student engagement and involvement. One of the most important results of being *Cold Called*, in fact, is the increased desire to raise one's hand and the increasing belief that one is capable of contributing. This was a big part of the story for my colleagues in the Peace Corps—not just that *Cold Calling* allowed girls to participate where otherwise they would have met with social sanction, but that it caused them to gradually begin raising their hands on their own. Therefore we want to balance *Cold Calling* with hand-raising to provide opportunities for students to choose to participate, even while we are choosing them via *Cold Call*. Further, hand-raising provides critical data. How many hands we see and how eagerly they have been raised tells us a lot about our class and their interests and confidence. Of course it's fine to occasionally tell students to put their hands down—it can be a nice change of pace and saying