because we've all read it and shared the experience of reading it together. One of the benefits of a collective task like reading together is that it builds belonging, the strongest incentive for humans there is. Ironically, reading and experiencing together often yields more enjoyment than does a setting where everyone gets choice. The moment when your class laughs or gasps aloud in the midst of a shared reading, a bond is made. The experience of reading together is as powerful to the brain as events experienced together and thus the shared connection it creates can help forge a lasting and valuable sense of community and belonging. If we want the experience of reading to be powerful and unique—social, shared, and pleasurable, more powerful than the smartphone—the key is to read communally and to emphasize that by reading aloud together.

## E is for expressive.

To read aloud well is to make meaning audible, to breathe life into a text. It's powerful when a teacher does this and it's even more meaningful when students do. It is a statement—peer to peer—that the text is worth bringing to life. To hear your peers take pride in their reading skills and show they value reading creates the sort of positive social norm that is most likely to shift reading behaviors. When students read aloud expressively, and when, as they do in the best classrooms, they implicitly compete to show who can read most expressively—they are not only bringing what you are reading to life, they are making the case for the book. Gabby Woolf does an exemplary job of this in the video *Gabby Woolf: Keystone*. Her class is reading *Dr Jekyll and Mr Hyde*, Robert Louis Stevenson's 1886 novella, which is full of archaic and unfamiliar syntax. To successfully bring it to life is to show that you understand the book. So as she begins, first modeling herself before she calls on students to *FASE Read*, she challenges students to bring out their maximum