than two possible answers. Simply making the question nonbinary helps.

Binary questions are also problematic because they are especially prone to “tipping,” which occurs when the questioner adds voice inflection on a word or phrase to suggest the answer. A bit of emphasis on “now” or perhaps on the “let it cool”—“Should we add the solution now? Or *let it cool*?”—makes answering doubly redundant. Your questions could be about bocce, something I know exactly nothing about, and given a binary question with a bit of voice inflection to tip me off, I'm getting ten out of ten correct answers.

## Avoid Bait and Switch

Another way questions can go wrong is because you ask a question, give students time to think about it, and then call on them to answer a different question, or a question you rephrase in a way that changes its meaning. “How is Jonas changing in this chapter? Turn and talk with your partner for ninety seconds,” you say. But after the *Turn and Talk* you say, “Great. Where and how do we see Jonas's anxiety showing up?” The eager student who put her hand up thinking she'd be asked the original question is caught out. She showed her enthusiasm and now may quite publicly struggle to answer. It's bait and switch and it makes it less likely that she'll keep raising her hand as confidently or as often.

Most of the time, bait and switch happens because we haven't prepared. If you think up your question in the moment, you will have to keep it in your working memory while you listen to student responses, manage the classroom, think about the content, and so on. Under these conditions it's easy to forget your own question—or to remember only the general idea. It's one more reason to