chapter an “exemplar”—you can process what students say and write with less load on working memory.

Your ability to foster student engagement is another aspect of teaching that responds to preparation. If you have thought through how you're going to ask students to participate during the Do Now, say, and who you're going to call on to answer it, you make it more likely that you will follow through on those actions and the result will be students who feel accountable to participate and who benefit from a classroom where everyone—not just the eager hand-raisers or call-out-the-answer types—gets a fair chance to speak. Do that and your lesson is likely to crackle with engagement and energy. If you don't, you're likely to find yourself reminding students that you're seeing the same two or three hands on every question. Making a statement like that to your class should be a reminder to yourself to prepare better.

So lesson preparation is the process of going back through the lesson plan and thinking what it will look like not just in a classroom but in your fifth-period classroom tomorrow. When and how do you want to be more intentional about drawing out some of the quiet kids? Which questions should students answer in writing so you can see what they're thinking? It will be different for third period, where you'll have to watch the clock so you don't glance up and realize that a “five-minute discussion” is now entering its twenty-fifth minute. You'll need time stamps—if you're going to get to the demonstration of plate tectonics, you'll have to keep the Do Now to seven minutes, no matter how eager the waving hands. The vocabulary review gets three minutes and a stopwatch on the smartboard to make certain you don't miss the second half of the lesson.

With all this in mind, let's step into Christine Torres's fifth-grade classroom at Springfield Prep in Springfield,