an afterthought. Some use it to complete clerical tasks—stapling packets, organizing instructional materials, writing lesson objectives on the board, or briefly collecting their thoughts. In their eyes, the opening minutes of class are ideal for preparing for a lesson that won't begin until they start delivering new content.

Of course there are times when you have to grab a minute to attend to some task, but it's important to recognize that every lesson begins as soon as students walk through the door. Two minutes at this point counts just as much in terms of potential learning as two minutes during the heart of your lesson and, of course, you and your classroom norms are still communicating to students *Here's what to do here; here's what to expect.*

So it's worth being intentional about the start of class, planning a most efficient *right* way for students to enter the classroom, complete the *Do Now*, get their learning materials ready, and transition to the heart of the lesson—and then making a consistent habit of it for every student. When that happens, once it's a routine, it's a win-win situation. Students are productive, you're productive, and with everything moving with tidy efficiency you're actually more likely to get time to review your lesson, tidy the room, catch up with individual students, and just maybe have a sip of coffee.

**Strong Start**

*Strong Start* is about designing the sequence of events in the classroom from the moment students enter the room, presumably after your Threshold, until the heart of the lesson begins. It’s critical for three reasons:

1. It sets the tone for everything that comes after.  
   Classroom culture is not static from day to day. It is