challenging section of *Dr Jekyll and Mr Hyde* to ensure that all students understood the key events, Imran answers the question and Gabby reminds the class, “Good. Can we keep voice loud, please.” She's reinforced this not when Imran's answer was inaudible but as it slipped toward quiet. Catching it early is better, when a reminder will do rather than a correction. Moments later, Ahmed answers and Gabby reminds students again, “Keep your voices loud, please.” Her tone is clear but without pique. Notice that she addresses her comments to the whole class as well, ensuring the universality of the reminder and diffusing any criticism Ahmed or Imran might feel. This too is easier to do when you are reminding students before voices have actually become inaudible. Once they have you'll have to ask the speaker to repeat and draw far more attention to him.

Reinforcing audible format is best when introduced by a rollout in which you explain to students what you'll do and why. You might consider language like “What you have to say is important, so everyone should be able to hear it.” Students may feel uncomfortable at first, so the reinforcement of the purpose behind the expectation is essential in helping them embrace the challenge and contribute audibly to the learning community. So is a bit of warmth as you begin reinforcing the expectation so students understand that it comes from your faith and caring for them. This is evident in Gabby's teaching and in Christine's, where the upbeat tone is as noteworthy as her persistence.

## Collegiate Format

Watch the interaction between Beth Verrilli and her student Ashanti in the video *Beth Verrilli: Hither*. Students are reading a scene from Shakespeare where Lady Macbeth