obviously high or low on the achievement scale. Finally, there's nothing in his affect—squinting, for example—to make it seem as though he's looking for someone or some behavior to latch on to. The seven students he *Cold Calls* are evenly spread out around the room. These aspects seem trivial but they are visual reminders that *Cold Call* is about expectations—“This is how we do it here”—and Denarius underscores this by asking *Cold Call* questions in a calm, even tone, with a smile or a look of sincere interest.

Be cautious, then, of tying your *Cold Calls* to specific behaviors when you're not sure students are eager to be called on. If you say, “Hmm, I see you hiding over there, Caitlin,” you not only risk making Caitlin self-conscious but also cause students to think about whether they look as though they are hiding and how they should look if they do (or don't) want to be *Cold Called*.

Of course there are times when the *Cold Call* is personal. Sometimes we do want to message to a student, I chose you for a reason; I want to hear your opinion; your voice matters. But that reason should almost always be a positive one. You are selected as an honor, or because of a unique perspective, or because I want you to know your voice matters. Brittney Moore's beautiful *Cold Calling* where she describes how she can't decide who to call on is a great example. Occasionally it will be clear to a student that they've been selected because they've made a common error that's worthy of study. If you intend to try that, make sure to read *technique 12*, *Culture of Error*, to make sure the context makes students feel secure and supported.

Na’Jee is also using *Cold Call* in a small group. In a way that's systematic, as it signals that *Cold Call* applies everywhere. Some teachers tend to think of small groups as more informal and not the place where systems and techniques apply. But it's also worth remembering why we