and “live in the now” (elements of *Strong Voice* I discuss later in the chapter, and of *Positive Framing*, which I discuss in the next chapter) as it is of her intention to be caring. Nobody takes this job because they want to shout at young people and have caustic interactions with them. But teachers by the thousand do so every day. They do so because the situations we are placed in as teachers are immensely challenging. They require more than good intentions to resolve optimally. They require technique. The grace that a teacher like Emily shows, we should all understand, is at least in part technique in disguise.

But before we go to technique it is necessary to establish that to excuse (or worse, justify) disorderly classrooms is to allow precious opportunity to be stolen from young people —usually the most vulnerable. Teachers are invested with authority to ensure that certain rights are protected precisely because those rights are preciously important and require everyone's cooperation to sustain. And teachers for the most part are insufficiently trained and prepared for this small but critical part of the job.

This is no small failing. A recent national survey of teachers³ found that *more than three quarters* (77 percent) believed that “most students suffered” because a few students were persistently disruptive. But of course, school problems, like everything else, are not evenly distributed in society. In schools with more than 75 percent of students eligible for free or reduced-price lunches, more than half of teachers⁴ went further and said that “student behavior problems contributed to a disorderly or unsafe environment that made it difficult for many students to learn.” For those who might be wondering, the authors also disaggregated the results by race of teacher and found few differences. On the question of whether student behavior “contributed to a disorderly or unsafe environment that made it difficult for many students to learn,” for example, Black teachers