anxieties and concerns. If you get stuck, write about why you are stuck.” Or say, “A better question might have been … But keep your pencil moving! Go!” The keys here are relieving the pressure students may be feeling to get the answer “right” and getting students started trying to think in writing. Later you can add expectations⁴ and the technique will establish for your students an indispensable cognitive tool. For now you want a vibrant, positive norm.

You can also start small. The first time you assign *Silent Solo* writing, do it for forty-five seconds. Challenge students to see if they can write the whole way. Help them by making the initial question an interesting one and maybe by giving them a phrase to start off their answer if they get stuck. Ensuring success is ensuring buy-in. The next time your goal will be a minute. Later, ninety seconds. Within a month you'll be writing for five or ten minutes at a stretch. But if you try to start with ten minutes you likely won't get there because students will, effectively, practice struggling. You want them to practice succeeding.

Most likely, students will continue to seek assistance with this challenging task, even after the rollout and even after time has been extended. As you circulate, students will likely call you over and want to tell you what they are thinking instead of or before writing it down. Remember, allowing them to talk instead of writing to explore their thoughts won't help them learn to think in writing, and that is the cognitive habit we are aiming for. Try saying something like “I can't wait to read it once you've written it” or “Great, get it down before you forget it.” This brief pep talk both refocuses students on the essential challenge of the task (the writing) and reassures them at a tough moment that whatever they get down will be valuable to themselves and to the class’s discourse.

A few other implementation notes: