peruse his work, for example, or standing at the back of the classroom as a class discusses a topic.

In addition to Denarius Frazier's exemplary circulation in *Denarius Frazier: Remainder*, several of the Keystone videos in the book are excellent examples of circulation at its best. I particularly recommend watching *Christine Torres: Keystone*; *Gabby Woolf: Keystone*; *Narlene Pacheco: Keystone*; and *Nicole Warren: Keystone*. Notice how they move easily around the class as they teach naturally. Even when classroom space is tight you'll notice teachers moving around to teach from most areas of the room, going front to back, and interacting with students as they do so.

# TECHNIQUE 26: EXIT TICKET

As the bell rings at the end of class and students gather their things, we often have an intuitive sense of how our lesson went, but without objective data, it can be hard to know for sure how student understanding has changed as the result of the hour spent together. In order for our students to make maximum progress, we need better information. In order to get a reliable snapshot of student thinking, I recommend ending your lesson with a short sequence of questions that reveals the extent to which students have mastered the central content of the day (as well as, perhaps even more important, who is still struggling and with what). When you collect this from students before they leave, and review the data, it's called an *Exit Ticket*. Use of *Exit Tickets* can establish a productive habit of student review (and retrieval practice) at the end of a lesson and also ensure that you end each session with information you can use to analyze your students' progress and inform coming lessons.

After reviewing the results of an *Exit Ticket*, you hope to know: How many of your students answered a basic