**Plan the Words.** “First, there is a cue, a trigger that tells your brain … which habit to use,” writes Charles Duhigg in *The Power of Habit*, “Then there is the routine.” The words that cue a procedure to begin and the ones that guide its steps *are part of the routine*. They should be planned as carefully and used as consistently as any other part. Notice how carefully Nikki Bowen says the word “transition” to her first graders in the video *Nikki Bowen: Stand Up* and how “shoulder partners” or “table partners” is the cue for different version of *Turn and Talk* in the video *BreOnna Tindall: Keystone*.

**Quick Is King.** Make the most of class time by showing students the fastest right way to do something. Even tightening your procedures by mere seconds can lead to big savings over the course of a school year. To get a sense of just how much time is at stake, let’s say that your students completed ten transitions per day. Next, imagine that you pruned these transitions down by a minute apiece and sustained that pace for two hundred school days. Practically speaking, this would enable you to add back an entire week’s worth of instructional time. That’s one more week you could spend analyzing the themes in *Animal Farm*, teaching students how to dissect a frog, or helping students master the skill of adding fractions with unlike denominators. Looking at it the opposite way can give you a sense of just how much time inefficient procedures can steal from you and your students.

To challenge your students to get it right as quickly as possible and to discipline yourself to focus on speed, practice procedures against the clock. Use a stopwatch to measure and celebrate progress while continuously challenging kids to execute the procedures a little faster. “We did this in sixteen seconds yesterday; let’s shoot for twelve today!”