most challenging scenarios they will face—the ones that erode their faith that they can succeed and cause people to leave the profession—as much as the happy and sunny times that inspire them and make teaching the best job in the world. There are precious few books that talk about those difficult moments. And so at times I have written examples that show students at their most challenging. It is not my assumption that young people are “usually” this way. My presumption is always that it is understood that educators love young people even—well, especially—when they set limits and provide structure for them, but I can see how some examples might have read otherwise. If nothing else I have gone back through them and tried to reduce any implication that students are out to misbehave. It is also important to be honest about the job, however. Students in any classroom anywhere represent a cross section of human nature. Any classroom anywhere is a room full of goodness and weakness, virtue and silliness, wisdom and folly. That’s why the job is so hard. I’m grateful if, as a reader, you understand that the reason I sometimes give examples of challenging behavior is because it’s a reality teachers deal with—too often in silence and without systematic support.

In the end, the process of self-reflection and examination has also helped me to be clear about what I believe. What I believe is that issues of social justice are inseparable from issues of teaching and that issues of teaching include the necessity of deliberately designing classroom cultures to ensure the most supportive culture for young people.

Some people are uncomfortable with this. They see engineering cultures as coercive, an exercise in the excess of power and authority. But I return to the Fundamental Attribution Error. We attribute other people’s behavior to “abiding personal characteristics” and “minimize the influence of the surrounding situation.” We see permanent