Targeted questions work best when you plan them in advance, by the way. It's hard to think of the four questions that will quickly reveal where your students stand on the spur of the moment. And if you're trying to think of the next question you won't be able to listen to the answers very well. Or to think about your tone of voice. That's important because if you asked targeted questions in an environment where, say, you smiled warmly to show that getting it wrong would not make you frustrated, then you would make the opportunity to check for understanding more productive. Smiling when you ask your targeted question or perhaps when students struggle to answer reminds your class that you want honesty and that knowing about misconceptions early makes them easier to fix. This is a topic I will discuss further in *technique 12*, *Culture of Error*.

There's one other thing that will help you ensure that your students succeed: *Cold Calling* (see *technique 34*). This technique allows you to gather data from a sample of students from around the room. If you rely instead only on students who volunteer to answer, you will gather erroneous data. Students who volunteer to answer mostly do so when they think they know. Students who don't think they know are less likely to raise their hands. Unless you find a way to call on those pupils, you will always overestimate the proportion of your class that understands a concept.

*Cold Calling* also helps in another way. It helps you to move quickly through your questions. That might seem counterintuitive; wouldn't a teacher want to assess as thoroughly as possible? But one reason why teachers so routinely recognize the need to check for understanding but fail to act on it—or act on it in a cursory way—is time pressure. There's never enough time, as you know if you're a teacher, and taking five minutes to circle back to double-