It is the version of English in which almost every article, scientific study, legal brief, or memo is written. It is used before the court of appeals, in presentations to the board, among physicians during rounds.

Call it Standard English if you like. Some people don't like that name, but we have to call it something and the fact is that there is a vernacular your students must master if they are to be prepared to participate fully and equitably in civic and economic life.

It may anger you to know that someone might prejudge your students' ideas because they were not communicated in Standard English; perhaps you'd rather argue against accepting a standard form,³ but as teachers we must put those feelings aside. Or feel both things: love for our students and their forms of expression and also embrace the responsibility of ensuring that they are prepared to speak the language of the professions with fluency. School is the institution that provides students with the opportunity to master those language forms. If it does not, then full access to opportunity will accrue only to those whom privilege or happenstance prefers.⁴

“Pretending that gatekeeping points don't exist is to ensure that many students will not pass through them,” Lisa Delpit writes. “To imply to children or adults that it doesn't matter how you talk or how you write is to ensure their ultimate failure.”⁵

Delpit calls language a “game,” with rules students must learn to play by. I might opt to call it a convention,⁶ one that we inherit and that changes more slowly than society,⁷ but whatever you call it, we have a responsibility to prepare students to master it. As the teacher and writer Jasmine Lane observes, “School is a place of preparation, a place where you learn the codes of the mainstream not