midst of learning or do not yet understand. Reflection is often silent, and frequently involves writing. When the task involves brainstorming potential solutions, it is idea generation. Some examples:

- A teacher asks students to reflect in writing on how differences in daily life in the eighteenth century might have caused people to understand the role of family differently from how we do today.
- A teacher asks students to reflect on an author's stylistic choices and why she might have used a repeated image.
- A teacher asks students to make notes to themselves on the keys to solving a difficult type of problem after solving a few as a group.

Reflection activities are independent, so they function much like IP, but they tend to feel a bit slower as they are open-ended and more formative. Thus they can bring a sense of slowness back to a lesson even in small pieces. They are also important to include because students who, outside of school, are constantly stimulated by their smartphones, increasingly spend less and less time reflecting and letting their minds wander. There may be some value in causing that to happen in school.

## Activity 5: Discussion

Activities in which students develop ideas and answers by talking directly to one another, in small groups or as a class are called Discussion. This might involve a *Turn and Talk* (as we saw in Sadie's class) or using *Habits of Discussion* (see [technique 44](#)), which are to make a larger discussion productive and efficient. In some cases, you might insert batches of discussion during guided practice or questioning to ensure that students *Batch Process* ([technique 45](#))—that