In a format that the teacher can assess at a glance. The data in *Show Me* are actively presented by students in visual form—held up so you can see and scan them quickly from where you're standing; limited circulation required. The clearer you are about what the presentation of the data should look like, the better. You'll want to decide and explain to students whether they should hold their fingers up in the air (so you can see them easily) or in front of their chests (so they are less visible to peers), for example. If they're writing on a whiteboard, are the answers boxed? How high must the whiteboards be held? This is important because the less of your working memory you have to use in searching, the more you can spend analyzing the data.

There are two common versions of *Show Me*: the first is *hand signals*, and the second is *slates*.

## Hand Signals

Although there are a variety of ways to employ hand signals, the key to the approach is that on a specific cue, students hold up digits in unison to represent their answer.

In *Belanger/Frazier: Show Me Montage*, Bryan Belanger uses hand signals to gauge student mastery of a multiple-choice question about rates of change. Within seconds of the morning greeting, Bryan prompts students with the cue “rock, paper, scissors … one, two!” On “two,” students pound their desks three times in unison before they raise their hands to reveal their response (one finger for answer choice A, two for B, and so on). Bryan has made the act of showing him their answers so familiar that this routine goes like clockwork.

Once students' hands are up, Bryan scans the room, narrating what he's looking for (“making sure they're nice and high”) as well as what he sees (“I see lots of twos, a couple of fours”). This reinforces the procedural