5. The commenting student, with memory rapidly fading, tries valiantly to respond but offers an even vaguer response. “Um, I don't remember exactly; I just remember they were really good.”

This well-intentioned exchange is essentially a waste of time for both Martina and the class. If you are going to take class time to practice revision (and I certainly hope you do), then you need to make sure that both the original student author and the rest of the class (now in the role of “assistant-revisers”) are able to derive meaning from the exercise. Therefore, we need to keep the writing we are talking about in students' working memory—it must remain visible to them. *Show Call* does that, enabling a teacher to ask for precise, actionable analysis. If I project Martina's writing, I can say, “I like Martina's thesis sentence, especially her use of a strong verb like ‘devour,’” and then use the projected image to point it out for everyone. Or “I like Martina's thesis sentence, but it would be even better if she put it in the active voice. Who can show us how to do that?” This way, when we talk about what's good about a particular piece of writing, or how it can be improved, people are not just following along, but are able to actively think about the revision task. Since most of the information we take into our brains comes to us visually, students will now understand and remember the revision you are talking about far better.

Making a problem visible also allows you to ask perception-based questions. Asking a student, “Do you see any verbs we could improve on?” is far better than saying, “Amari has used a so-so verb here, let's see if we can improve it.” The former question causes students not simply to exercise the skill of improving verbs but to recognize—and practice recognizing—places where it needs doing, where writing could benefit from improvement. Without the critical step