If it's a meatier question, I always have students write or *Turn and Talk* first to increase participation, then circulate while they're talking and choose a kid or two to *Cold Call*.

If it's something that is easier, I might ask out loud but gather data in the moment by *Cold Calling* specific students—I often choose kids who I think of as bellwethers—indicative of how kids often think about things. If it's something really simple that I want all students to quickly remind themselves of, I might use *Call and Response* and we'll all say it aloud.

Sadie thinks carefully about technique, but her understanding of the principles of how learning happens frames her decisions—her goal is to keep students thinking constantly and actively building long-term memory. Sailing along, there are knots to tie and sheets to trim, but a teacher also has to keep an eye on the compass.

You might argue that the chapter titles of this book are already a set of design principles for a model of the effective classroom—that one should “check for understanding” and have high academic and behavioral expectations, for example, or that the “ratio” of student work should be high and include a balance of writing, discussion, and questioning. In many ways they are, but they are *teaching* principles and even those principles need to be supported by principles of *learning* that can help to explain why certain methods work as well as how and when to use them.

First, though, let me make a brief digression on the topic of perception. Perception is crucial for educators to understand because it shapes decision making. We can only make decisions about what we see. For a teacher to recognize that Julissa is slowly growing despondent over the math, she must first perceive Julissa's body language