better methodology for every situation. He seems to have heeded Dylan Wiliam's admonition “Everything works somewhere and nothing works everywhere.”)

Open-ended problem-solving activities play an important role. So does direct instruction. The answer to the question of which to use is: It depends. But what it depends on most, Sweller tells us, is the degree of knowledge about the topic among students, and here it is important to recognize that outside of a university setting students are most often novices and, further, that people go back and forth between novice and more knowledgeable states frequently, even within a subject. On Friday, at the end of a well-taught and organized unit, your students may be fairly knowledgeable; then they start a new unit on Monday and move back to square one again. This would imply different teaching techniques for each day.

Consider an experience one of my own children had building a model rocket in Science class. One day my daughter announced with no small degree of excitement that they were going to be building and flying rockets in class later that week. “Great,” I said, “Are you studying air resistance? Or aerodynamics?” That sounded super-geeky, so I rephrased: “You know, the sort of things that might make a rocket fly better.”

“I'm not really sure,” she said, “We haven't yet. I think it's the introduction to a new unit.”

A few days later I asked her how the rocketry lesson went. “Great,” she said. They had made the rockets out of paper and gone out to the back fields to fly them. “Our team won!” she told me breathlessly—meaning that her group's rocket had stayed aloft the longest. “Double-cool,” I said, “What made your rocket work so well?” I asked.