terminology.

4. *Leaner language*: When we ask students to improve an answer by using *fewer words* ... and sometimes clearer syntax.

# TECHNIQUE 17: STRETCH IT

In the classrooms with the highest academic expectations, right answers aren’t the end of the learning process; instead, they open the door to further challenge. “The reward for right answers will be harder questions,” is how music teacher John Burmeister describes it to his students, and over time *Stretch It*, the simple habit of responding this way—perhaps not every time but often enough—builds a powerful culture of self-confidence and curiosity.

What does this look like in practice? Let me start by showing you two classrooms where this happens. The first, the video *Arielle Hoo: How Did You Know?*, is a middle school math class. Even before Arielle starts questioning her students, you can sense the heightened level of expectations that have become part of Arielle’s classroom culture. Her student, Sarah, explains how she knew a proposed solution to a system of equations would be false: “I knew by looking at the graph, because the two lines are parallel so they would never intersect, which shows there is no solution.” Without being asked, Sarah uses technical vocabulary, and offers a full explanation for her response in a cogent and precise sentence.

Arielle is probably fairly happy with Sarah’s response. Proud of her even. But instead of saying simply, “Great work Sarah,” she responds: “How did you prove that algebraically? What method did you use?”

Arielle’s response to Sarah’s answer shows both cause—how does one get a classroom where students answer like