belonging in a community that values them. These include things like establishing and maintaining eye contact and engaging frequently in *prosocial nonverbal behaviors*, such as nodding to show understanding and others I described in the critical technique *Habits of Attention*. “A small signal can have a huge effect on people's sense of belonging and membership,” social psychologist Gregory Walton tells Daniel Coyle in *The Culture Code*. “But the deeper thing to realize is that you can't just give the cue once.” It has to occur frequently and steadily.

The fundamental actions participants take to build a strong discussion are listening carefully and showing speakers they care about what they're saying. No one makes a discussion-changing insight to a room full of people whose body language says *I don't care*. Maintaining eye contact not only helps communicate both ideas but helps students discipline themselves to “lock in” on the person they're listening to and helps them “hear more.” By looking at the person talking, a listener picks up gestures and facial expressions that add meaning to the words themselves.

An additional fundamental comes from the technique *Format Matters*. Students have to speak loudly enough to be heard clearly. This works best when it is a habit. Nothing breaks the thread of a discussion like the teacher saying, “Carly, we can't hear you,” or, worse, the situation going uncorrected. *It’s fine if we can’t hear you* makes a pretty clear statement about the importance afforded to Carly's thoughts. Not only can people not respond to what they can't hear, but when people are straining to hear, their facial expressions and body language change. You cannot make a what-you-are-saying-is-interesting face when you are making an I-can-barely-hear-you one.

To the importance of eye contact, listening behaviors, and reinforcing voice volume, we can add three specific