classrooms, so that independent work becomes a joy rather than a chore? We have to ask: *What makes students likely to follow—eagerly even—the chain of actions in the habit?*

To turn an activity into a routine, make your directions *simple, clear cut, and stepped*, says Peps Mccrea.2 You want first steps that are easily remembered and require few decisions. This makes the habit easy to activate, as a counter-example may show. Let's say you've planned for students to reflect on your question for three minutes in writing. You say, “Please take out a piece of paper and answer the question, Why do most animals live in the canopy of a typical rainforest?” Unfortunately, at this point, success is already in doubt. You have thirty students and some number of them will struggle to find paper. Someone will have to decide what kind of paper to use … and possibly discuss this with a peer … or ask you: *Is this paper OK? I don't have any notebook paper. Is this OK?* Someone else will ask for something to write on. Distraction will replace the quiet hum of thinking in writing—*Have we started yet, Ms. Collins?*—and the three minutes you've allocated for this written task will quickly evaporate.

If students already have journals handy or out on their desks, when you say, “Why do most animals live in the canopy of a typical rainforest? Go,” initiating the chain of actions would be far easier and there would be fewer interruptions. Notice how this happens in the video *Jessica Bracey: Keystone*. She tells her students to start writing in their journals, which are on their desks. Within seconds they are all deeply engaged in the task. Every student. The speed of their response is important. It's not just that potentially wasted time is made productive; it's that there is continuity of thinking. The ideas that were in their heads as they read are still in their heads as they write, undisturbed by a shuffle for paper or search for a pen.