number 1.” Or perhaps there is no sticky something on the floor, and Alfred just needs a reminder to stay on task. Now that you're near him you can do it with a whisper. He'll appreciate that. And just maybe he will be more likely to get going.

A *whisper solution*, a *hand-you-what-you-need-while-I'm-still-teaching solution*, a *stand by you to help you complete the task or understand what the problem is solution*. These are only possible if you can get anywhere in the classroom and get there naturally, without attracting undue attention from the rest of the class: Look! She's moving toward Alfred! Your approach to Alfred is much better if he appears to be on your natural path of circulation around the room—your route. In other words, your interaction with Alfred can't be the first time in the class period you've broken the plane.

Breaking the plane, in other words, allows you to gather information constantly—even when you don't know you need to gather information; if you circulate more you will see more of what's happening in the classroom, especially from your students' perspective—and to use privacy and proximity to solve problems and communicate with individual students.

But it only works as a norm, a teacher habit. If you move out into the classroom to establish proximity only when you need to (for example, to address a behavioral situation), it will heighten attention to your actions, making it almost impossible to interact with the subtlety and finesse you sometimes need.

**Full Access Required**

Once you break the plane, you must have full access to the entire room. You must be able to simply and naturally stand next to any student in your room at any time, without