“Posture and expression are incredibly important. It's the way we prove we are in synch with someone.” However, “a mere hint of belonging is not enough … we are built to require lots of signaling, over and over.”

You can see this happening in Christine's classroom. Her students are constantly signaling to one another that they belong. They turn and face each other. They nod, react, and encourage. And this signal is strongest when their classmates are sharing important ideas. There is a risk that every student takes in raising their hand. To raise your hand and say something truthful in front of a group of peers is to risk failure or, worse, judgment by them. Yes, your answer could be disastrously wrong, but even worse, your classmates' nonverbal response could say: None of us could care less about what you just said or Oh, wait, did you say something? I barely even noticed or please tell me you didn't just make a comment about the book. If that is the case, only a rare student will raise her hand.9 The learning journey is forestalled when students must risk social transgression to embark upon it. “Regardless of how strong the logic of your pep talk,” Peps Mccrea writes, “few pupils will ask more questions in class if they sense it will result in being mocked by their mates.”

But in Christine's classroom, to raise your hand and to begin to formulate a thought is to bask in the warm glow of acceptance and encouragement. The culture in her classroom does not just allow students to take this necessary risk, it lovingly draws them into the light. It is profound and beautiful—a gift to young people, and most of all to the hesitant and reluctant. But what you see in her classroom is not something that will happen naturally, among any group of people, unless the teacher intentionally builds it.