disruption or because of the response to the disruption by the teacher, the result is that no one is on task because when the teacher is not teaching there usually is no task. And during the hiatus that can result from an interruption many students will find something else to pay attention to—their minds will wander; they will turn to look out the window, they will turn to a friend and raise an eyebrow. When instruction finally restarts, they are more distracted and less attentive, so the trick is to fix any problems or disruptions using the least invasive intervention and ensure that everyone can keep working.

Let's say I am teaching but Roberta has flopped her head down on her desk and, eyes closed, is either asleep or feigning sleep. I am keenly aware of the importance of fixing the situation. Not only will Roberta miss out on the lesson if I allow her to sleep—thus compounding whatever has caused her to be tired with a gap in her learning—but her action is a statement to other students that they, too, might put their heads down and sleep if they're tired or are just not “feeling it” that day. I should make sure after class that Roberta is all right if I have doubts—it's possible there are issues that require support, but let's also not rush to assume that; there's also a chance that Roberta is simply tired, as teenagers often are, and that this is a moment for loving accountability. If I allow Roberta to take a nap it won't be the last time this happens: I will soon have a classroom where, when it suits them, some number of my students will flop their heads down—some in silent judgment of school or society or adults or my teaching and some just because they can. Or because it's become the norm.

Let's say that, knowing all this, I stop my lesson on the Great Depression and speak to Roberta: “Roberta, what we're studying today is really important for you to know about. We're going to be writing essays about it, but you'll