In doing these things you have begun to establish that Elicia is an individual to you—one whose opinion you care about. I had a colleague once, a math teacher, who loved to learn little details about each student and drop them into playful word problems: If Elicia loved Beyoncé he would write, “Elicia wants to build a platform for the Beyoncé statue she has created in art class. Its dimensions are …” Great, if that's you, but you don't need a bag of tricks like that. It's more important to know Elicia as a learner, to walk by her desk and say, “Don't rush, Elicia. Your last paper was good because you took your time.” Your statement shows that you remember her last paper. That you know what she is capable of. That you know and care about her progress. That you see her as an individual, in other words. This most of all is what young people crave and deserve.

A final note. Teachers who work with students who grow up in poverty should be especially careful to avoid a potential assumption that growing up with limited financial resources implies growing up impoverished in other ways—without strong social networks or parents who can support you, for example. I wish to go on record stating that of the 100 best parents and guardians I have met in my life, 99 of them have been parents who were raising their children with limited financial means, sometimes in real financial difficulty, and who provided their children with exemplary love, support, guidance, and wisdom nonetheless. Many students have people they can confide in and share their lives with, in other words. Please do not presume that they need an advocate more than they need someone to teach them chemistry. What young people need most reliably is an opportunity to learn and grow under the guidance of someone who cares about their progress in doing so. This is nonnegotiable. Do some students lack relationships in their lives and yearn for an adult who can be a confidant or a