Taking notes is a critical but easily overlooked skill that allows students to organize and review material over the long run: across a unit, a semester, or a lifetime. And in the short run—that is, during class when they are actively taking notes—the process can cause students to focus and prioritize their attention.

To state the obvious, note-taking is progressive: a habit that builds over time from a simple model in the primary years to something more complex when students are older. At the elementary level, students should know that “written on the board” means it’s important and should be written down by them as well. At the middle school level, they should systematically record the important ideas from the class and differentiate them from less salient points. At the high school level they should leave class with a record of the proceedings that will allow them to study the ideas in depth and with clarity even weeks later.

Perhaps some students do. But too many, likely, will produce haphazard scrawls scattered across the page like I did because the process of learning to make notes is so easily overlooked. Others will not know that *if it’s on the board it matters*. Taking good notes requires and therefore builds attentiveness, and too-brief notes not only will be largely useless later on but also may reflect a fractured state of attention during the lesson. At the other end of the spectrum, some students will try to write everything down and have little attention left to reflect on the ideas from class. They may have little sense for what information was actually important when they return to review. Left uncorrected, each of these untainted note-takers will carry a hidden disadvantage to every classroom they inhabit.

With that in mind, it’s worth watching the video *Sadie McCleary: Board Equals Paper*, a series of moments from Sadie McCleary’s Chemistry lesson at Western Guilford