learn from others.” It would be harder but perhaps more valuable to measure our discussions based on listening as much as talking.

*Effective* discussions in the classroom are rare. Many people might say this is because it's hard to get students to talk. In fact, what teachers *tell students* they want them to do during discussion is almost always to talk more. Students are graded on their participation and that usually means how often they talk, and perhaps with bonus points for strength of opinion. A *good* discussion, in this paradigm, is lots of students talking, and a *great* one is lots of students talking *and expressing opinions strongly and confidently*. Colby argues forcefully and repeatedly about the Kansas-Nebraska Act and we are happy. Look at him fighting for his ideas!2 He knows what he believes and won't be swayed!

To talk a lot is to succeed. To talk louder, to be more ardent in one's opinions and beliefs, is to succeed more.

But talking only improves student thinking if it is part of an exchange and if people are listening to one another—ideally with open minds inclined to consider and potentially change initial reactions and opinions. A true discussion requires students to listen well and respond after careful consideration. Perhaps the idea that Colby is sure of what he believes and won't be swayed is not an entirely good thing.

Further, for a discussion to be effective, the purpose must be more than to prove that you are right and others are wrong. The name for that is a debate. In the classroom, the goal should be to learn from rather than win the discussion—to inform rather than confirm what you thought you knew. All participants then are working to ultimately answer the question: what have I or we learned from this process?