Judicial Branch followed by one about the Legislative Branch. Mileposts are speeding past. Pacing is sped up.

Alternatively, we've all had the student whose hand remains permanently raised throughout a series of questions and answers, waving in the air for minutes at a time. If you call on him you are unlikely to get a response to the most recent comment or the topic currently under discussion. You're likely to get a response to a question that caused your student to raise his hand ten minutes ago. You're more likely to be calling on someone who wants to speak but not necessarily to respond or answer or connect to the ideas of others.

Lowering your hand also communicates respect for your peers because it's difficult to listen and have your hand up at the same time. A classroom where hands are up while someone is speaking is a classroom where people are saying, essentially, “What you're saying won't change what I want to say.” It's very hard to listen carefully to someone else’s idea when your raised hand is a cue to try to keep your own previous idea in your working memory. Putting hands down when someone else is speaking communicates respect and interest in someone else's idea. In order to ensure that students' enthusiasm to participate isn't dampened every time they lower their hands, it's helpful to share the rationale for students and have a clear cue for when hands should be raised or lowered, even something as simple as “hands down” or a nonverbal gesture to remind students to be fully attentive to the comments of their class teammate. (For more on the effect that this peer-to-peer listening can have on the speaker, check out technique 44, Habits of Discussion.)

You can see an example of how this works in Christine Torres's vocabulary lesson. “The word ‘implore’ means what?” Christine asks, and almost every hand is in the air