# Putting It All Together: Jasmine Howard, Nicole Warren, and the Back (or Front) Table

The video *Jasmine Howard: College Bound* provides a beautiful example of *Standardize the Format*, *Active Observation*, *Show Me*, and *Culture of Error* in a single clip, shot in her eighth-grade math class at Freedom Prep in Memphis, Tennessee. She's chosen one problem within a larger problem set as a sort of gatekeeper. It's a sort of mid-class Exit Ticket. Jasmine circulates and observes. She's using a version of *Active Observation* that's more focused on preparing to give group feedback than on giving individual feedback to every student. Based on these observations, she reviews the problem with the whole class and, as she does so, uses *Show Me* to check that students arrived at answer A. She then sends students to independent practice but walks around and signals subtly to four students to meet her at the back table. There, Jasmine teaches a targeted mini-lesson for the students who needed more help, observing and supporting them as they work. Here you can see her *Standardizing the Format* as she asks students to circle the rate of change to ensure that they both calculated it correctly and know what it is. She does this with impeccable *Culture of Error*—steady, supportive, nonjudgmental. You can see how much the students feel this as they get up from their desks to come to the back table. The first student she taps starts to gather his things and move right away. He's not embarrassed and he's not trying to hide. He trusts in Jasmine to help him and you can see why when you watch her reteach. Jasmine has caught a simple misunderstanding early, before it snowballed, and adeptly has given them just the support they need to