mosque, or synagogue—they will drop their voices and change the tenor of their interactions to reflect the dignity of the space. Their actions say, *What happens here is important*. No one tells them to make this change. They read it in the cues offered by the environment and the way others around them act. A classroom is not a house of worship—we don't want a shift to the same culture you'd see there—what we want is a shift, a recognition that the students are entering a place of shared value and heightened importance.

With that in mind, watch the first moments in the classrooms of Sadie McCleary, Darren Hollingsworth, Trona Cenac, Steve Chiger, and Tamesha McGuire, all of which are different and yet in a way similar. Each communicates different cultures, but they communicate and reinforce culture clearly. They use different routines but signal that this place you are entering will be a productive learning space. We are watching teachers who are all *culture shapers* rather than *culture takers*.

Start with *Darren Hollingsworth: Smart. Smart!* How could you not start with Darren? We can't see him at the outset, but we can hear him greeting students in the hallway: “Look at this! Smart. Smart!⁴ Describing his students generally and a few individuals, he says, “Super smart.” He's upbeat and irrepressible but also confident and absolutely clear in his mind on what is supposed to happen when students enter his room. He greets students by name, communicating that they are known and important, but as they enter there's a clear task to follow through on (“My group, go straight in. Equipment out, ladies and gents!”) and students follow along with clear expectations, setting the norm for a happy and productive start to class. This soon becomes routine. It's how class starts with Mr. Hollingsworth. Students will feel known and included and also expect to have their time well spent.