paragraph and ask, “So tell me, what does the final line of the story mean? What happened and why?” A discussion might ensue, with students first making conjectures of varying types. Likely, they'd bring evidence as the details of the story's ending were discussed.

With ADW you might look at a chemical reaction or perhaps listen to a piece of music and then discuss it. What do we think is happening in the beaker and why? What do we think the composer was trying to communicate?

After those discussions you'd ask your students to write about the text they read or the activity they did. As they wrote, they'd be drawing on two sources of information: what they took from the story or the activity and what their classmates said in discussion. Ideally, a student would take his or her initial understanding from the reading or the activity and add some nuance and additional detail gleaned from discussion, but it doesn't always work that way. It especially doesn't work that way for your weakest students, with the weakest readers particularly at risk.

In many cases, students are able to use what they hear and learn in the discussion to write, convincing you that they understood the reading (or the lab experiment or a lecture) far better than they did. You might call this “piggybacking.” So while it is valuable to use a final writing exercise to assess how much your students know or to allow them to synthesize ideas, the writing in this case conflates information gleaned from two sources, one often easier to understand than the other. You (and your students) could easily get a false positive—an erroneous indication of mastery—as a result of piggybacking.

This happened to some colleagues at a school I work with. They were doing a unit in which students read *Romeo and Juliet* and strove to have a college-level discussion about it. In this case, the discussion was held in part online and via