success or perceive the norm of universal participation more strongly—they *begin to participate more by choice*. Further, the effect the authors describe “also increases over time.” The more the *Cold Calling* becomes part of the fabric of class the more profoundly it causes students to choose to raise their hands. Finally, students' affective response to class discussion changed. The authors found that students' comfort in participating also increased. Being *Cold Called* didn't cause stress; it caused comfort and confidence.

## Purpose 2: Creating a Culture of Engaged Attention and Loving Accountability

Later in this chapter—in [technique 36, Means of Participation](#)—you will see a soccer coach, James Beeston, explain to his players why he is going to *Cold Call* them during training: “Sometimes I might call on you guys even if your hand isn't raised, because the game requires you to be switched on at all times.” What James knows is that if the game demands it, practice must prepare them for it. His job is to help them be the best athletes they can be. Prepare the child for the road, not the road for the child, as the expression goes. Somehow, we understand that a coach should prepare each athlete so they can hope to reach the highest level. This is the sign of a good coach and part of how a coach shows that he cares. Perhaps this is why the bonds between athletes and their coaches often run so deep.

Does it need to be said that teachers should prepare each learner as if they will go to the highest levels too? That this means a learning environment that also requires them to be, in James’s words, “switched on at all times”? To care about young people is to build an environment that lovingly and supportively prepares them for success, and that requires most of all effort and attention. Where people