prove something to themselves; motivation, confidence, and hand-raising all increase.

With that in mind, the phrasing of Na’Jee’s second question borders on brilliant: “Tell me about the internal conflict, Yedidiah …” Again, the openness of the question allows Yedidiah many ways to contribute to the conversation. He is capable of contributing, even if doesn’t know every last piece of the answer. Na’Jee makes it safe to start without having to be perfect.

Na’Jee's third *Cold Call* is a bit trickier. He's increasing the challenge a bit now but when Yedidiah gets it, Na’Jee’s appreciation is simple and quick but lovely: “You got it, dude.”

There are two more *Cold Calls* immediately after: “Can you tell me about that conflict, Marcel?” and “And what kind of conflict was that, Mark?” and then Na’Jee’s most interesting question stem yet: “Yedidiah, I want you to *start to speak* about what sort of conflict you already see evidence for. …”

The framing suggests, in asking Yedidiah to *start to speak*, that of course he won’t be able to cover everything. He’s asked merely to get the class started. If there are follow-ons to expand Yedidiah's thinking, well, we expected that from the start and Yedidiah will experience his contribution to the conversation not as incomplete, but rather as exactly what was helpful to the class at that moment. In other words, he will feel successful.

As with Denarius's class, you can readily see warmth and positivity in Na’Jee’s *Cold Call*. He, too, is smiling while he *Cold Calls*. In the following photo he is listening to Marcel’s answer to his first *Cold Call*, relaxed and smiling. His smile says to his student: *This Cold Call lets me hear your voice. It’s a good thing.*