Two starts with a discussion of her preparation. To make the keystone I had to cut from two sections of her lesson—the vocabulary review and the discussion—because I’ve rarely seen a class where students participated with such effort and openness and her playful personal style combined with constant loving accountability makes this class sing.

Nicole Warren: This lesson with her third graders at Leadership Prep Ocean Hill Elementary Academy positively crackles to life from the outset. There’s a quick chant that everyone is all-in on (Procedures and Routines, Chapter Ten, will help you do this). Then it’s right into a Turn and Talk (technique 43). She Cold Calls coming out of it (technique 34) before transitioning to independent practice. It’s also Retrieval Practice (technique 7). The movement from each activity to the next is a model of the sort of flow that a well-paced lesson can build (Chapter Six). Notice in particular how well she Brightens the Lines (technique 28) with lightning transitions like “Tell your partner” and “Go to work!” as well as economy of language (part of technique 58, Strong Voice). The tiny Call and Response (technique 35) of “Happy Birthday” leaves Crystal smiling. There’s also top-of-the-line Active Observation (technique 9) and Standardizing the Format (technique 8) that allow her to know how students are doing and to build the positive and warm relationships you will undoubtedly notice.

Gabby Woolf: Reading Dr Jekyll and Mr Hyde with her year 10 English class at King Solomon Academy in London, Gabby models FASE Reading (technique 24) beautifully as her students make meaning audible. Next there’s a bit of Cold Call (technique 34) as she Replaces Self-Report (technique 6) with targeted questions to review the passage. She makes sure to reinforce that discussion starts with being heard by stressing audible format from Format