to remember to provide. Counting silently to yourself can help you build the necessary habit of self-discipline. You might also walk around your room as you wait, with the goal of waiting until you reach a specific spot on the other side of the room before you call on someone. Or you might use the clock to your advantage, saying, “I’ll call on someone in ten seconds,” and forcing yourself to wait until the second hand releases you. After the socializing of hand-raising and the praising, remember that this is the most important part: there has to be some time when no one is talking, when students are thinking. By your silence, you are intimating that this is as important as anything they will do all day.

# TECHNIQUE 34: COLD CALL

*Cold Call*, the practice of calling on students regardless of whether they have raised their hand, is a profoundly important technique that can elicit a chain of surprising and positive effects in the classroom. There are few techniques that can transform a learning environment for the better as quickly. That said, because it is such a powerful technique, it’s important that it be used correctly. Fortunately, getting a few simple things right makes *Cold Call* highly likely to help you build an inclusive, rigorous, and, frankly, happy classroom.

I’m going to start by sharing two videos that I think help demonstrate with clarity how to make *Cold Call* effective. The first is of Denarius Frazier in his tenth-grade geometry class. The second is of Na’Jee Carter in his second-grade reading group. Because I love these videos and think they have so much to teach us I’m first going to narrate each of them chronologically; then I’ll go back and explain the key principles of effective *Cold Calling*.