some specific aspects of the *Turn and Talk* routine deserve specific comment.

“My *Turn and Talks* actually used to be pretty ineffective,” BreOnna shared. “[Students] would not talk—or they would talk about something else.” Now, though, she builds in “an extensive rollout where I explain ‘this is what I’m expecting [active on-topic conversations; asking questions of each other], this is the type of language I want to hear [academic vocabulary]. I want to see these actions [nodding; facing each other; showing your partner you’re listening].’ It could seem a little Type A but I honestly think kids just don’t know how to have an academic conversation in a way that brings out the best in their partner. I try to make sure they have all the tools before they need them.”

Who partners with whom should be set in advance so that conversations can begin without further action or discussion, as they do in BreOnna’s and Sarah's classes. Generally, partners should be pairs who are sitting side by side and should commonly remain partners for the duration of a lesson—although, as I noted, BreOnna's students have two potential partner pairings: a shoulder partner and a face partner. In Sarah's class, there is just one partner but in both cases, that partner is clearly established before class begins.

The value is not just in the fact that when students are chatting with a partner within two seconds, they’re using time efficiently. It’s that a fast and familiar transition preserves continuity of thinking. Whatever was on their mind as they were writing remains in their working memory as they enter the *Turn and Talk*. Five or ten seconds spent looking for a partner or scanning the room to see if everybody is doing the *Turn and Talk* is more than enough to remove a key thought from working memory.