search%20shows%20dysfluency%20causes,tests%20versus%20those%20who%20fail.&text=Students%20who%20were%20previously%20fluent%20can%20become%20dysfluent%20when%20text%20complexity%20increases.

21. This is a deliberate allusion to Mark Seidenberg's outstanding book *Language at the Speed of Sight*. It should be required reading in every graduate and undergraduate education program.

22. https://shanahanonliteracy.com/blog/wake-up-reading-wars-combatants-fluency-instruction-is-part-of-the-science-of-reading.

23. Maryanne Wolf's book *Reader, Come Home* is an outstanding study of the ways constant exposure to technology is changing the portions of the brain that we use when we read. These portions of the brain are neuroplastic—they change in response to what they are asked to do. I strongly recommend the book. I also wrote a book review of it that makes the broader case that I don't have time for here as to why Wolf's book is so deeply important.  
https://www.educationnext.org/forgetting-how-to-read-review-reader-come-home-maryanne-wolf/.

24. And, sadly, even within the walls of many schools.

25. Especially for independent reading.

26. In some cases the challenges of student oral reading have come to dominate the conversation, to the point that teachers are routinely advised to “never ask students to read aloud.” It’s often dismissively referred to by the pejorative phrase “popcorn reading,” but creating a simplistic straw man is not grounds for dismissing a crucial classroom practice. There are surely challenges to student oral reading, but they are also