answer the question. I could sit and engage in flights of my own fancy while class went on around me.

In fact, the degree of thinking I do and the degree of my intent to answer are correlated; *norms of answering shape norms of thinking*. I am less likely to think fully about your questions if I know I am unlikely to share my thinking with others. On the other hand, if answering fully and well is the social norm in the classroom—that is, most of my classmates answer frequently and with full effort, so I think that's the natural thing to do—I am more likely to persist in doing the hard work of thinking because I want to be able to answer too.

Perhaps a few students will persist in the most rigorous inquiry when left to their own accord and self-discipline but most (myself included!⁸) require the possibility of having to share their answer to sustain and encourage their best thinking. So unless we manage the process of who answers, when and how, we are far less likely to cause the greatest amount of thinking to occur among the widest range of students.

I am aware that I have not said anything about the content of questions yet and that may concern some readers. Needless to say, the quality of your question matters deeply. Among other benefits, a good question creates a strong incentive (or disincentive) to answer. It is also true, though, that if questions engage only a narrow group of students or only engage them half-heartedly, *the quality of the question doesn't matter much*. You can ask the most profound question in the world; if only one or two students think about it deeply with the expectation that they might answer, it's all for naught. If we want to improve questioning, it's necessary to first address the culture and context in which questions are asked.