First on the list is a *nonverbal intervention*. I observed this during a recent lesson taught by Ashley Hinton. As Ashley taught her students to write descriptive paragraphs, she constantly made micro corrections with either a hand gesture or intentional modeling of the action she expected students to take. As she did this, she never broke the thread of her engaging teaching; distracted students were corrected in privacy and at no cost to the lesson.

You can watch Ashley do this in the video *Ashley Hinton: Nonverbal Montage*. Notice how Ashley addresses minor issues with subtle and well-timed nonverbal interventions while they're still small and can be fixed with a tiny adjustment—small problem equals small solution and, in this case, no disruption. This also makes it easy for Ashley to stay positive in her tone as she makes her corrections. In addition, Ashley Circulates ([technique 25](#)) constantly while she makes her corrections. Always on the move, she's able to approach a student to give a bit more clarity to her corrections without other students noticing. Her gestures are consistent—she focuses on just two or three expectations that she wants to see—and, of course, she keeps teaching.

It's important to remember that a nonverbal intervention is not inherently noninvasive, even if it looks that way when Ashley does it. To be noninvasive, you have to keep teaching and keep moving, embedding corrections in the larger flow of class. I was recently watching a teacher struggling to use nonverbals to address behavior in her classroom. The reason? She failed to continue teaching while making nonverbal corrections. She broke off her discussion and walked two rows to her left as the class watched her intently. She stopped and made a dramatic gesture to a student to sit up and stared at him waiting for him to follow her directions. At this point, with no instruction going on, everyone was staring at her and the