of “Did I get it right?” for a few seconds. This can be very productive, not just as an intellectual exercise, but as a cultural one, in causing students to spend less energy evaluating their work and more energy thinking about the underlying ideas (“I hadn’t thought of doing it that way. I wonder if she’ll get the answer I got”).

Her lovely move to normalize and celebrate error—“Put your hand up if you changed your answer. Yes, be proud! You figured it out,” is a perfect way to express the core of the idea in *Culture of Error*—*the fun is in the process*. She celebrates struggle in the most compelling way, but that moment is really only possible if everyone is invested in “figuring it out” with her throughout the process, and it all starts with her decision to withhold the answer.

# Manage the Tell

In poker circles, players have to watch their “tell”—the unintentional signals they give that reveal the status of their hand to savvy opponents. A good player can figure out that an opponent's habit of rubbing his eyes or rechecking his cards is a nervous tic revealing a poor hand. Having a tell puts you at such a disadvantage that some elite players wear sunglasses and hooded sweatshirts to ensure they don't reveal too much.

As teachers, we also have tells—unintentional cues that reveal our hand, such as whether an answer was right or wrong or whether we valued what a student said. A tell causes us to communicate more than we realize. It compromises our ability to withhold the answer. And it can often result in our unwittingly communicating disdain for errors.

One of my tells as a teacher was the word “Interesting,” offered in a benign but slightly patronizing tone of voice and usually with a “Hmmm” in front of it and a single, long