best results are likely to come, I suspect, from asking students to write a balance of sentences both with and without parameters.

Finally, one ideal place to use AOS is at the end of a lesson, given that part of its purpose is to help students synthesize and summarize. Imagine a school where every lesson in every subject ended with students writing (and revising!) a single, artfully crafted sentence capturing with nuance and sophistication the most important or challenging idea from that lesson. *Art of the Sentence*, in short, can do great service as an Exit Ticket or as the next day's Do Now. Imagine: You wrap up the lesson by having everyone distill a key idea in writing; the next day, students get their sentences back with individualized guidance, such as “Revise to use the phrase *in spite of*” or “Rewrite, clarifying what the pronoun ‘it’ refers to,” or with a challenge like “Great! Now see if you can use the word *anabolic*.”

## Art of the Sentence Meets the Little Ones

You might be wondering: is this idea feasible with my little ones? I think the answer is yes. A lovely video of Brittany Rumph with her K/1 students, *Brittany Rumph: Artful Sentence*, shows a bit of what's possible.

Notice that students draft their sentences on worksheets that frame the writing like art in a museum. Later Brittany will put many of the best up on the walls to celebrate and encourage them, but the implicit message is By writing one beautiful sentence, every single one of you is creating art with your words.

Even without that detail, you know Brittany makes a big deal of student writing. The tone of celebration is everywhere—in the way she reads great sentences aloud and does a Call and Response to put an exclamation point on one student's use of the word “magnificent.” Her