People are motivated by the positive far more than by the negative. Seeking success and happiness will spur stronger action than seeking to avoid punishment. “When we are happy—when our mindset and mood are positive—we are smarter, more motivated, and thus more successful. Happiness is the center, and success revolves around it,” concludes Shawn Achor, summarizing years of studying happiness. Positivity inspires and motivates and that should influence the way we teach. But positivity, particularly in learning settings, is often misunderstood.

One flaw is the assumption that praise is the same thing as positivity. *Praise* is telling someone they have done something well. *Positivity* (in this case) is the delivery of information students need in a manner that motivates, inspires, and communicates our belief in their capacity. This is important because teachers are often told to use a “praise sandwich” or to praise five times as often as they criticize. But telling someone they're doing great several times so that you can then say *And you have to line up your decimals consistently* is problematic.

Believing that you must wrap criticism with praise assumes that students are fragile and can't take constructive feedback—that criticism is something a teacher has to trick them into hearing. Most students want to understand how to get better and come to trust adults who tell them the truth when they also know that those adults believe in them.

Inaccurate or unwarranted praise “is unlikely to stand for long in the face of contrary experience,” writes Peps Mccrea. “Promises of success that don't eventually materialize will only serve to undermine motivation and erode trust.”

We all know the teacher who's inclined to describe every idea, every answer, every action as “awesome.” Soon