When you intend to give students more than a handful of seconds of *Wait Time*, it's helpful to make that fact explicit to them so that they can manage their actions accordingly, especially as they get better and better at using *Wait Time* to build ideas. Doubly so, if you are giving them longer stretches of *Wait Time*.

Let's say I'm a student in your class and you ask a rigorous question, something like, “What political forces pulled the border states toward the Confederacy, and how did Lincoln respond to them?” You give the class some *Wait Time*, and I start to reflect. After about five seconds, I've come up with a few nascent ideas—I'm ready to be called on—and I begin to wind down my thinking.

But let's say you were hoping for something a little more robust—you were hoping I'd be ready to cite a few specific incidents and describe how they connect, and you'd decided to give the class twenty or thirty seconds of *Wait Time* to make sure we thought deeply. I'd be more likely to meet your expectations if you made your intentions transparent by saying something like, “This is a hard question. It requires you to reflect on multiple factors. I'll give you thirty seconds or so.”

Now I can gauge my thinking accordingly. I would start off understanding that this was no throwaway moment and would persist in reflecting because you'd told me about how much *Wait Time* to expect. If not, you might give me thirty seconds to think only to have me not use it, simply because I didn't know you were going to give it to me.

## Step 4: Give Real Think Time

The fourth step is simple: stop talking. This is critical because the first steps require you to narrate things and interrupt student thinking. This must be balanced with *real think time*, which, because it requires inaction, can be hard