degree of expressiveness. “In the spirit of being sensationalist, we want to read it as … Stevenson would want his readers to imagine it.” She encourages her pupils to volunteer “with your highly expressive reading” and notes, “I know several of you who would make a very good job of that.” And indeed the subsequent reading by her students is rich in expression and meaning made audible.

# The Challenges of Reading Aloud

There is joy and pleasure in reading aloud but there are also challenges, and these are also worth addressing because in many ways the purpose of *FASE Reading* is to address those challenges26—it's a classic case of technique making strategy viable. If you have the technique that allows you to overcome a few challenges, the benefits of a powerful strategy become feasible.

So what are the challenges? The reasons can be grouped in two primary buckets: leverage concerns and self-esteem concerns.

## Leverage Concerns

Some educators react to suggestions that they include more oral reading in class with a question along these lines: “Why would you allow a single student to read aloud during class time? What are the other kids doing?” The implication is, I guess: nothing. Having a lone student reading aloud to an otherwise passive classroom can indeed be a poor use of time. And of course it's possible that the reader's peers could be checked out and gazing out the window. But in a well-designed lesson, they would be reading, too, and this is both valuable and relatively easy to accomplish.

I use the term “leverage” to refer to how much reading the rest of the class is doing when one student is reading