In *Culturally Responsive Education in the Classroom*, Adeyemi Stembridge writes, “Depth of learning requires that students enter into a meaningful relationship with the content itself. ... This is most often profoundly facilitated through modeling of a relationship with content by teachers.” Relationships are valuable because they are “the channel through which investment in school is personalized.”

The quality of feedback enabled by *ActiveObs*, effective, focused, informed by an understanding of each student's learning, brings the interconnection between student, teacher, and content to life. Consider the dynamic between students and teachers in the video *Active Observation Montage*. The three clips are a case study in relationship building. In the first classroom, we see Nicole Warren giving feedback on a math problem. “Super smart,” she says, “going and checking every answer choice while you have extra time... . Really nice.” The smile on the student's face lights up the screen. Though Denarius Frazier's style is a bit more muted, he too pauses at every student, commenting not just on their work in the moment. “Killing it,” he says, as he delivers a fist bump and a smile. His “much better” shows that he knows where his students struggle and therefore is able to celebrate growth. Tamesha McGuire's first-graders get the same mix of affirmation—“Nice work, my love!”—and meaningful, targeted feedback.

I should note that people sometimes confuse *Active Observation* with “aggressive monitoring,” which is a term Paul Bambrick-Santoyo has coined to describe giving feedback to every student using a monitoring key over a series of specific rounds or laps. Much of the guidance I've provided here reflects Paul's insights and the implementation of teachers trained by him, so I hope it's clear that I see immense value in that approach. Teachers