voices are off.”

**Act As If:** After delivering a *What to Do* correction, glance away as if you're sure that they'll follow through. Then use a confirmation glance as needed to monitor.

**Ambiguous:** The cause of poor follow-through is unclear, but it has been persistent or seems like it could include some taking advantage of gray area.

  *Simplify:* Remove words, choose just one step.

  *Emotional Constancy:* Double-check that you are calm and steady; remove emotional variables.

**Challenging:** The cause of poor follow-through appears to be deliberate or limit-testing. Behavior is repeated or the situation is especially challenging.

  *Shrink the Change:* Break the next step down into the smallest possible task. For example, you say to a student, “Stand up at your desk and walk to the door, please,” but she doesn't do it. You say, “Stand up at your desk, please.” She still doesn't do it. You say, “Push your chair back. Good. Now stand up. Thank you.”

  *Insert Careful Acknowledgments:* When a student is in a negative cycle, help them perceive each productive step back toward the path to success by acknowledging it in a muted tone. For example, a dean of students dealing with an upset student might say: “Please sit in this chair” very calmly and then add “thank you” (with very little affect) when the student has done it. Then perhaps: “Please turn and face me so I know you're ready to discuss this.” As soon as it happens, the dean might acknowledge that the student is making an effort: “That’s much better. Thank you.” Then he or she might try, “Now