student might say, in an answer that most teachers would, I hope, consider to be not fully correct—the gist, perhaps, but none of the detail and specificity that indicate a quality understanding. “Right,” the teacher might reply. “They don’t like each other, and they have been feuding for generations.”

Did you catch the rounding up? The student hadn’t included “and they have been feuding for generations.” That was the teacher's work, though she gave the student credit for it.

Sometimes a teacher will be even more explicit in giving a student credit for the rounding up, as in “Right, what Kiley said was that they don’t like each other and have been feuding. Good work, Kiley.” Either way, the teacher has set a low standard for depth and accuracy. The student who answered may think, “Good, I did it,” when in fact she didn’t. Moreover the teacher has crowded out Kiley’s own thinking by doing cognitive work that she could—and should—do herself. She has eliminated the opportunity for Kiley to recognize the gap between what she said and what would have constituted a top-quality answer.

Over time, persistent rounding up may cause students to internalize a low standard—they may believe they’re prepared and ready to succeed when, in fact, they’re not. The story of the American high school, TNT’s *Opportunity Myth* tells us, is an overwhelming number of students believing they’ve done everything right and still not being prepared to succeed in college. Resisting this kind of subtle erosion of expectations is part of our responsibility to students.

Another, possibly more likely outcome of persistent rounding up is an erosion of trust in and respect for the teacher. Students are highly attuned to moments of inauthenticity in the classroom. Rather than feeling the