Christine's notes reveal that she has done something similar to what Clear advises. Every time she jots “Cold Call here” or “Turn and Talk here,” Christine has made a specific plan for where and when she will take a particular action and thus has tripled the chances that she'll actually do these things. More specific preparation makes it more likely that we'll do the things we hope to do in teaching. It is a follow-through multiplier that helps us become the teachers we want to be.

Christine's lesson preparation habits are impressive but there isn't one universal method for Lesson Preparation. Situations are different and people are different. When your intuition and curriculum have been sharpened by years of instruction, you may be able to prepare simply—perhaps scripting the exemplar to a single critical question and then entering the classroom confidently... at least on a routine day with a lesson you've taught before. But it may take some time before you get there. Perhaps you're a teaching a new class this year. You'd probably want to increase your preparation level at the outset even if over the course of the year you began to simplify or adapt the process you used at the outset. But it's important to make it a habit. Naming the core preparation practices, making sure they're productive and useful, and committing to when you'll complete them is critical. Just as the preparation itself increases the chances you will take the actions you plan on when you teach, so too your chances of preparation will multiply if you commit to consistent time, place, and methods.

This is likely to result in stronger student achievement and a more positive and engaging experience for your students, not to mention more enjoyment of teaching for you. I will return to this idea later but as Adeyemi Stembridge puts it, reflecting on his own lesson preparation habits in *Culturally Responsive Teaching in the Classroom*, “I always