has this level of importance, but it remains true that being able to hear the teacher—and not talking while the teacher is talking—is an equity issue. The costs of even low-level disruptions (as discussed in the introduction to this chapter) are both massive and most likely to be paid by students already in suboptimal settings or most prone to distraction. “One of the reasons we get students' attention is to give them the opportunity to be successful at a task,” my colleague Darryl Williams reminded me. There are times, in other words, when your words are the most important in the room, and you must be able to ensure that they do not compete for attention with other voices.

In many cases, the solution is to start in order to stop—that is, start a sentence and break it off, even in the middle of a word, to show that you do not yet have full attention. This is called a self-interrupt. The noticeable break makes the explanation—I have stopped talking because not everyone is listening and right now you must listen—unnecessary. A brief pause and an effort to proceed again is often all that's required. Sometimes a second start-then-stop is required. Sometimes breaking mid-word to make the pause more evident is surprisingly effective. Adding a shift in register helps, too. But used consistently and used early—before it is attempting to compete with the auditory equivalent of Times Square—this technique is one of the most useful and simple tricks in a teacher's arsenal.

Laura Fern models this beautifully in the video *Self-Interrupt Montage*. She's cheery and bright, walking across the front of the classroom as she responds to a student, “That's excellent, Cameron. That's one way that while bo—” A student in the front row is mesmerized by the camera and is no longer listening. He's lost the lesson. But hearing the sudden and unexpected break in Laura's voice causes him to turn face forward, to return to the math. Notice that there's no lecture here for him. The break itself brings him