lesson, as students solve problems they learned how to do earlier in the week.

Because it is so important to learning and so easily overlooked—and sometimes dismissed by educators who haven't read the research—*Retrieval Practice* is its own technique. But since the discussion here is about shifting among and between activities to create a dynamic flow in your lesson, it's worth noting here how helpful inserting short batches of retrieval practice in the midst of other activities can be from a pacing perspective. It's often fast and energetic; it can be done in short doses; it often makes students feel successful.

Let's take a closer look at how the different activity types can come together in a lesson—in this case, one taught by Jessica Bracey, of North Star Academy Vailsburg Middle School (see the video *Jessica Bracey: Keystone*). Consider the activities Jessica shifts between: As class begins, Jessica asks her students to summarize what happened in the previous chapter of the novel they are reading. As her students comment, she steps in to ask for clarification or steer the next question to a given student: “Yes, Angel's bracelet was stolen. What else is going on?” This is guided questioning. Jessica's students spend about two minutes engaging in it and she “unbundles” her questions, spreading the work of summarizing across multiple students. Then she shifts into FASE Reading, continuing the story from the prior day, before asking students to pause and respond to a question in their reading response journals. After students write independently, she leads a whole-class discussion in which students respond to one another's thinking.

We often try to keep class interesting by doing “new” things with students, but what makes Jessica's class interesting is doing *familiar* activities. By shifting between