classrooms, especially when they follow some important dos and don'ts:

**Dos**

Do use countdowns for simple tasks, wrap-ups, or transitions. Be aware that you will disrupt a certain percentage of work in the room. For this reason, try to transition, over time, to less narrated countdowns, advising students to be “ready for the [timer] beeps in ten seconds” or merely counting selected digits (for example, “Ten, nine [pause for a few seconds], five, four [pause], two, and one.”)

Do use the lowest countdown possible. Be cautious about giving students too much time to do a simple task. Putting pencils down shouldn't take ten seconds, so don't use a countdown from ten. Try three. The idea behind a countdown is to give students just enough time to do something well. Don't rush students by setting an unreasonable goal, but do be constantly encouraging students to manage their time efficiently during transitions and other mundane tasks and to be attentive to efficiency in academic tasks.

Do narrate follow-through *during* a countdown. If I narrate during countdown, for example, “I'll need your eyes up here in five, four, Nick is ready to go, two, Sarah's ready,” I am describing students who exceeded expectations. In other words, call students' attention to exemplars *during a time when they can all still meet your expectations for them*.

**Don'ts**

Don't stretch a countdown—that is, don't slow it down to match student behavior. If you do, it shows that you will adjust the countdown to the alacrity (or lack of it) students