(technique 43), and *Call and Response* (technique 35). She's successful at all of these because her *What to Do* directions (technique 52) make it just so clear to students how to participate and be successful. Sadie's easy, warm, gracious style expresses loving accountability.

**Narlene Pacheco**: Working with her kindergartners at the Immaculate Conception School in the Bronx, Narlene is crystal clear on how to participate successfully through a combination of economy of language (see technique 58, *Strong Voice*) and *What to Do* (technique 52) directions, which she combines with immense warmth. She's also great at carefully observing for errors (*Active Observation*, technique 9) while building a *Culture of Error* (technique 12), correcting mistakes without a hint of judgment or negativity.

**BreOnna Tindall**: Watching this class at Denver School of Science and Technology first led me to coin the term “bright mirror”—the idea that BreOnna is changing students while also letting them reveal themselves. She is both bringing out something that is new and giving students the chance to show what is already there. She begins with an impeccable *Turn and Talk* (technique 43), but notice how her system allows her to vary shoulder partners (next to you) and desk partners (across from you). All of this is built into habit and shows how impeccable *Procedures and Routines* (Chapter Ten) lead to a warm, trusting, and supportive environment. The warmth of her *Cold Call* (technique 34) shows just how inclusive this technique really is.

**Christine Torres**: You've already read a bit about Christine's teaching at Springfield Prep in Springfield, Massachusetts, in the Preface—the magic with which she brings *Format Matters* (technique 18), *Habits of Attention* (technique 48), and *Habits of Discussion* (technique 44) to life. Chapter