and humanity. Believing that relationships start with our playing some meaningful role in students' lives other than being their teacher can distract us from the fact that classroom relationships begin with our competence as teachers.

On the first day you should smile, welcome students, and put their time to good use. As you do so, make a point of beginning to learn names. Or perhaps you've already begun this process before students arrive and can surprise them by knowing their names and how to pronounce them. Tiny moments of humanity sprinkled in—You're Damani's sister, right? How's he doing? Say hello for me!—can be powerful, but as much or more of relationship building is being prepared for class, demonstrating the capacity to help students succeed, even if they have struggled in the past, and doing that with enough skill that you can smile and encourage students. Students will be looking to see that you take their learning seriously, that you can do your job. It's hard to smile and encourage students when some are ignoring your directions or distracting you and their peers, for example. Not being able to run the room is one of the fastest ways to lose the respect of students. They may still be friendly with you, knowing your lessons are simplistic or you are easily manipulated by mischievous classmates, but those relationships are not ones that lead to learning and growth for young people.

As you teach, endeavor to show that you like your students as much as you can in simple, subtle ways. Smile, for example. As teacher and writer Jo Facer puts it, “Everything is easier when students think you like them.” But students knowing that you care about them does not mean that you are friends. Part of caring about young people will almost assuredly include setting limits or pushing them to work harder than they otherwise might. You should be as warm as you can and also expect to be