is easy for students to see “You're going to stop right next to that number three.” His annotation task—put a box around the two forces acting on the baseball—allows him to clearly see if students are able to comprehend this kind of scientific writing.

Why that can be difficult is deftly revealed by the second round of AIR he assigns: *read the next section and place a star next to the line that explains how a scientific law is different from a government law.* “Law” is an apparently simple word that means something different in a scientific context, just the kind of barrier to understanding that the “curse of knowledge” might cause a teacher to overlook. But with two careful tests like this Nicholas will know: Can I give my students longer reading assignments? Can they learn reliably from this kind of reading? If they can, he can pause during a typical lesson and, rather than saying, “Let me explain to you how electricity works,” he can say, “Let me give you a short article that will explain how electricity works,” and let reading passages be one of his core teaching tools. If not, they will need more practice.

You can see a slightly more complex example in the video *Kirby Jarrell: A Doubtful Freedom*. Students in her seventh-grade class are reading *The Narrative of the Life of Frederick Douglass*. It's a challenging text, to say the least —published in 1845, Douglass's syntax is challenging to modern ears. His writing is rich in complex imagery and often employs a formal rhetorical style rarely seen today. But it is also a critical text for students to read. There is no other way to understand the book save to hear Douglass's voice directly. The text is both complex and necessary.

As the clip opens, Kirby's class has just read aloud. “It was so obvious from the way you read that aloud that you really understood it,” she says. This small moment shows us that Kirby is already using students' fluency and expression in