successful, to cause him to persist in this new behavior of hand-raising that he's embraced.

She walks towards him, repeating the question to make sure he remembers it, but also making the connection feel more personal. It's a bit of *Warm/Strict* (technique 61), too —she reminds him nonverbally to answer in a complete sentence (*Format Matters*, technique 18)—and that’s the gesture she's making.

When Alonso rises to the occasion, the handshake from Josefina and the snaps of support from the class are beautiful—and encourage everyone in class to be hand-raisers as well.

There are lots of wrinkles you could add to the approach here to emphasize and value different things. For example, if you're trying to socialize risk-taking and encourage students to be comfortable raising their hands for hard questions or when they're not sure they're right, you might say, “Now I'm starting to see those *brave* hands.” Or you might say, “I especially love it when students raise their hand when they *aren't* sure. That shows me fearlessness.” You might signal to students that you aren't expecting a polished, final response: “This is a really tricky one. I'm curious about your initial reactions. Get us started and we'll work through it together.”

Or you could slow your cadence and be double-calm. “Two hands. Three hands. Take your time but push yourself to share.”

Or instead of counting you could just verbalize appreciation. “Thanks, Jeremy, for raising your hand. Thanks, Jasmine. Thanks, Carlos. Gonna give other folks a few more seconds.”

If you're still not getting enough hands, keep at it. Norms and expectations won't change all at once. But you can also