and commit more easily to long-term memory. If you're teaching students how to transition from one location to another, it can also help to use a method called *point-to-point movement*. The idea is to identify a location or an action and then prompt students to move to that point and stop (for example, “Please stop at the corner of the hallway”). Parsing the transition into steps provides you with clear starting and stopping points, allowing you to control the pace with more precision. If you don't establish clear end points, releasing students to practice a new transition can lead to a mass of confusion, shoving, and squabbling that's difficult to stop, let alone manage.

2. Then model and describe. That is, explain and show students how to do the procedure. Doing both gives students a visual road map that they can follow and establishes a common language around the procedure. This is especially useful for “pain points,” parts of the procedure that often prove tricky for students and that you therefore want to see and understand especially well in advance, or common mistakes that students will make when raising their hands (“I'm not waving it in the air. I'm not holding it over my head”). This makes the difference between correct and incorrect more visible to students. And a demonstration contains more detail than you can ever get in words, and research suggests that working memory for auditory and visual information may be additive. That is, students can absorb twice as much before working memory becomes overloaded.

3. After you've modeled and described, you'll want to let students practice. Lots. To truly master procedures, students need repeated practice with timely feedback on their execution. Far too often, teachers don't ask students to practice enough before releasing them to