from and enjoy the unit more—and a long-term strategy—it systematically gives students a wide-ranging knowledge of critical facts. Either way you frame it, given how much we now know about the profound importance of background knowledge in higher-order thinking, the idea is powerful.

As Joe envisioned them, *Knowledge Organizers* should be one-page documents (or, occasionally, one page with two sides, if it's heavy with things like maps). The organization—the categories—are often nearly as important as the knowledge. Categories like key terms, important figures, and a timeline of important events communicate what sorts of things are important to know when exploring a topic.

If you set out to design a *Knowledge Organizer* for *Number the Stars*, the book Christine is reading, for example, you might include a timeline of key events in World War II. You might also want to include key historical figures and terms: It’s hard to make sense of the book if you don’t know what an occupation is or what the Star of David symbolizes. When you do, the scenes where Annemarie’s little sister speaks boldly and dismissively to a Nazi soldier or where Annemarie grips her friend’s Star of David necklace suddenly make sense. Now students can analyze them. If they don’t understand those things—and it’s a big assumption that all students do—it’s going to be hard to read the book well.

Reflect back on the earlier exercise in which I asked you to speculate on why the sky might appear green. Imagine how much more substantively you’d have been able to engage in that activity if you knew a body of rules and principles describing the physics of visible light and why colors appear as they do. Your reflections probably would have been much more rigorous.

To demonstrate the various ways a *Knowledge Organizer* might work, here are two fairly different ones that my team