Whether they use the term or not, nearly all educators develop procedures—set ways to complete recurring tasks—and teach them to students. One reason why procedures are so ubiquitous in classrooms is that, when designed well, they help teachers conserve time for learning. A second reason is that procedures “hack attention”; they save working memory for more important things. A third slightly more hidden benefit is that when students know what to do without being told, teachers have to make fewer corrections and can talk to them about more important or more positive things. Still, as every teacher knows, not all procedures are created equal. Sometimes, a procedure that’s poorly designed can make doing a task more difficult. To avoid this pitfall, I recommend designing procedures that satisfy five criteria: Simplicity, Plan the Words, Quick Is King, Little Narration Required, and Double Planned.

**Simplicity.** Plan the simplest way to complete each key task correctly. Although this point might seem obvious, teachers are sometimes tempted to design elaborate procedures because executing them can be fun. Adding that extra sequence of *Call and Response* or holding students in a crisp line for an additional fifteen seconds can also make things feel orderly. But in the end, these are perverse incentives. You want procedures so that you can get to learning. Period. The simplest version is the best.

If you’re not sure whether or not you should add something to your procedure, ask yourself: Does it help my students accomplish the task? Will I want to require them to do this step every time they do this task for the rest of the year? Will the productivity I gain be greater than the cost in time? The answer will often be yes, but strive to make certain of that for each step, and trim the procedure down to a handful of actions.