of the lesson rather than asking several questions that summarize the whole lesson. That way, if students get it wrong, you'll know which part was the problem. Also remember to vary formats—one multiple choice and one open response, say. You need to know that students can answer both ways.

*They* make great Do Nows. After you have looked at the data, let your students do the same. When students struggle, start the next day's lesson by redoing questions or studying wrong answers from the *Exit Ticket*.

*They're* predictable. An effective *Exit Ticket* doesn't introduce new concepts or skills. It should reflect the work students did in the lesson. Honestly it's fine if a question in the *Exit Ticket* repeats or restates a key question from the lesson itself.

## Variation: The Stamp

*Exit Tickets* are designed to be quick and data friendly. Occasionally, though, you may wish to substitute another form of daily assessment in their stead. These are called *stamps*. The name was coined by Paul Bambrick-Santoyo, who uses it to refer to a student-initiated summary of key learning points. Sometimes a teacher will ask a student to “stamp the learning” during class ... that is to recap the important points of a discussion, say. But a stamp can also be a written activity—an open-ended *Exit Ticket* if you will. A stamp is slightly longer than *Exit Tickets* and almost always open-ended. It asks a student to summarize their takeaways. In building our Reading Reconsidered Curriculum we found we used an *Exit Ticket* on the great majority of days, but occasionally we would use a stamp instead. They took twice as long but they asked students to complete a broader, more comprehensive reflection. The data isn't quite as crisp and there's more to grade. But it