learner is his ability to direct his attention toward his own leaning.”⁵ To build strong attentional habits is to give students stewardship of their own thinking.

*Selective attention* is the term for the ability to select what you pay attention to—to lock out distractions and lock in on the task at hand. It has “reverberating effects” on success in language, literacy, and mathematics, note cognitive scientists Courtney Stevens and Daphne Bavelier. They add that there are potentially “large benefits to incorporating attention-training activities into the school context.”⁶

If young people can build habits of sustained selective attention, their likelihood of success is higher. This has always been true but is magnified today when much of our universe—the online portion of it—is designed to fragment our attention and draw it to where it can be marketed and sold.

The technique *Habits of Attention* seeks to establish routines that cause students to focus their attention during class and build stronger attentional habits. In addition, it seeks to use the signals people send when they attend to someone else to build a stronger, more inclusive learning community.

I used to call the technique STAR/SLANT after the acronyms that schools often used to describe its component expectations in the classroom. I still suggest the use of an acronym to describe core attentional habits, but I’ve changed the name and the description to focus more on *why*. Understand the purpose of the technique and you are far more likely to use it effectively.

The “habits” in the technique focus in particular on eye-tracking and pro-social body language—language that communicates support for, and the belonging of, speakers. It may be helpful, before reading more, to watch these