fact, is in part learning that what you love may surprise you.

Nor does merely shifting to content that we think will speak to students make a culturally responsive classroom. The foundations of teaching must make the classroom a warm, vibrant, inclusive place that tells students their learning is important. Meaningful teaching helps students feel a sense of belonging in the classroom and connection to the content. As Zaretta Hammond writes, it is “simplistic to think that students who feel marginalized, academically abandoned or invisible in the classroom would reengage simply because we mention tribal kings of Africa or Aztec empires of Mexico.”

## Assuming Something Will Be Boring Is a Big Assumption

We often presume that students will find something boring. Think for a moment about accounting, for example. The epitome of boring, right? And yet there are thousands of accountants who love their job and find it fascinating; who read books about accounting for pleasure. They follow fascinating accountants on social media. Perhaps we assume accounting is boring because we don't know much about it. Perhaps we fail to account for variability in tastes. Someone loves every food that you despise and vice versa. Saying something like, “Guys, I know this is kind of dull. Let's just try to get through it” or even “You may not find this all that interesting” as a way of getting students through a topic is apologizing—it's assuming it will be boring to others—and perhaps a bit defensive: If I tell you I don't like it, then if you don't like it, you'll know it's not my fault. You won't think it's me that's boring.

A belief that content is boring is a self-fulfilling prophecy. No one lights a lesson on fire when they've just announced