that they belong. Far from being militaristic and soulless, managed properly, executed with a pinch of happiness or even joy, and invested with meaning by a teacher, shared routines are often comforting.

A third reason collective routines are powerful is that, ironically, they help us focus our cognition where it is more useful. Having a habit for how to write a midstream response to a novel—what I call Stop and Jot in the *Everybody Writes* section—sets students free to write more and better since their minds are on the book and not where to write and whether to use pencil or pen. Similarly, making a habit of doing something productive makes it easy to do and lets you save willpower and self-discipline for other things. This is in part a hidden story of schooling. Success relies on a lot of things but one of them is getting all your tasks and assignments completed, on time and whether or not you particularly feel like it that day. When scientists analyze people who appear to have the greatest amounts of self-discipline, James Clear writes, it turns out they are actually better at “structuring their lives in a way that does not require heroic willpower and self-control.”² They have better habits and make productive behaviors automatic. They don't need to draw on self-discipline to take care of daily habits because their routines and habits do that. Advising individuals in how to change their lives for the better, Clear essentially describes a high-performing classroom with strong procedures and routines. “One of the most effective things you can do to build better habits is to join a culture where your desired behavior is the normal behavior.... Your culture sets your expectations for what is ‘normal.’ Surround yourself with people who have the habits you want.... You'll rise together.”³

Classroom procedures and routines, in other words, which are really shared habits, carefully designed by a loving adult, are critical to almost every goal we seek in schools.