In other words, for the sake of the thinking, the transition needs to be smooth, precise, and almost invisibly efficient.

## The In-Cue

Watch the students during the *Turn and Talks* in the video *Christine Torres: Keystone*. The first one starts with Christine asking: “How does the image show *implore*? Fifteen seconds with your teammate. Go!”

A few minutes later she asks: “What *caustic* remark might the judge have made? Fifteen seconds to *Turn and Talk*. Go.”

In each case the cue is short, crisp, and sharp and the response is decisive momentum-building energy—enthusiasm might be a better word—from the class.

Think high school students won't do that? Watch Denarius Frazier's students at the beginning of the video *Denarius Frazier: Keystone*: “Tell your neighbor what you want to remember every time we're doing synthetic division.” Or Sadie McCleary's at the beginning of her *Keystone*: “With your partner: What happens as you increase temperature to the pressure of a gas and why, based on particle motion? Go!”

There's not an ounce of reluctance or cynicism in sight. Students in these videos are showing us that they perceive and react to classroom norms. If students look around the room and see hesitation, if they don't see others turning and talking right away, they won't perceive the activity to be the norm. Some students won't do it and those who do will be likely to feign as much participation as is required but to seek to do the bare minimum.

But if students perceive in the first fractions of a second that universal positive engagement is the norm, or if they assume—as they anticipate the *Turn and Talk* coming—that