about the soldier's perspective. At first, what?” and now, at last, Chassity nails it. And when her classmates celebrate with her, she knows her accomplishment is real and that she has done something of merit. When Emily says Chassity's work is good, Chassity knows it's good. Recall what we've learned from Peps Mccrea: “Success ... is about helping [students] do what they could not do before.” When that happens, he observes, their motivation increases.

It’s important to note that it can take quite a bit of time, as we see in this clip, to help a student get from “not quite” to “nailed it.” In this case, Emily knew it was worth investing the whole class's time (as opposed to privately intervening with Chassity at another time) because Chassity's thinking was going to form the thesis of the essay every student was about to draft. They all benefited, culturally and academically, from Emily's investment in their peer.

## The Power of Scripting “Right”

Many factors account for why we sometimes don't hold out for all-the-way right answers. There's a time investment in pushing students to find the rest of the answer instead of simply providing it yourself, and we're always under pressure for time. “OK,” we think, “I have ten minutes left, and I just might make it through everything I planned,” and then we get an answer that's almost what we wanted. It's easy to jump at the quick fix. Another reason is that we want to be encouraging. It is the first time you can recall ever seeing Linda raise her hand. Her answer isn't perfect, but you want to be positive, make her feel successful, and encourage her to raise her hand again. So you avoid any implication of “not good enough.”

It turns out that preparation is one of the keys to keeping standards high. If we haven't clearly defined what a high-quality answer will include beforehand, it's hard to hold