might just get called on. Suddenly we are moving up and to the right on the graph.

In [Chapter Eight](), we'll address how writing can boost the ratio. If I pose my question and ask everyone to write out some initial thoughts, I suddenly have thirty students answering a question I might previously have had just one or two students answer. I have multiplied my PR but also my TR. Students have to choose precise coordinated syntax and verbiage to write out an idea, especially if, again, I can get them to work more slowly and deliberately at times. Or to rewrite for precision, even. Writing is inherently harder than talking. Again we are suddenly sailing upward and rightward.

In [Chapter Nine]() we'll address discussion and how it can help boost ratio. There's a bit of a golden ticket in this chapter, a hidden gem that not everyone recognizes the value of. It's the realization that the ratio during a discussion—and indeed the quality of the discussion more broadly—is shaped at least as much, or even more, by the degree and quality of listening as it is by the degree and quality of talking. We live in a world where sometimes we're all talking (or shouting), and no one is listening (unless shouting back counts). Our classrooms are better if they are the antidote to such a world. So perhaps a better title for [Chapter Nine]() is Ratio Through Discussion and Listening.

Before we get to these topics, there's one additional factor to consider: the knowledge prerequisite. To quote Daniel Willingham once more: