would be answering because they planned to raise their hands. Some, though, would not find a radius because they hadn't planned to raise their hands or weren't yet sure if they wanted to participate. The ratio would be low.

If he had said, “Ricardo, give me an example of a radius,” and used the *Cold Call*, then other students might or might not have taken the time to think through the answer to this particular question about the radius since they knew the *Cold Call* was directed to Ricardo. But the way Denarius frames the question causes every student to do the work during the pause between the question and the identification of the person who will answer. The recipe here is: Question. Pause. Name. The timing means every student in Denarius’s class is searching the diagram for an example of a radius in preparation for the possible *Cold Call*. The ratio has been multiplied, if not by thirty, at least manyfold.

A small thing: Denarius gives his students six or seven seconds of *Wait Time* here to observe and think about the diagram before he even asks the first question. In fact there's *Wait Time* throughout. This reminds us of something else important. *Cold Call* is never a “gotcha.” Denarius is not trying to catch students daydreaming or embarrass them into paying attention; the intention behind the technique is to set them up to succeed. Giving them the time to get oriented and to think through their answers helps with that. Effective teachers make students feel safe and successful even as they cause them to be more accountable and attentive.

There's further wisdom in the video as well: the universality of Denarius's *Cold Calls*, for example. It's clear he's not picking on Ricardo—or anyone else—because so many people get *Cold Called* throughout the lesson. It's not the strugglers or the kids in the back row or any