# Common Misperceptions

One common misperception about the levels of intervention is that they represent a process or a formula—that you should always progress methodically through each level, trying all six types of correction in sequence before giving a consequence. Although the goal is to be as close to the top of the list as possible, great classroom managers maintain fidelity to what works. Sometimes they go straight to a consequence, sometimes back and forth among the levels; and occasionally they use several interventions with an off-task student. In fact, using levels 1 to 5 implies that students are making (or appear likely to be making) a good-faith effort to comply with expectations when reminded. Behavior that is deliberate and is disruptive most often is behavior that should earn a consequence.

Another common misperception is that ignoring misbehavior—or addressing it by praising students who are behaving—is the least invasive form of intervention. In fact, ignoring misbehavior is the *most* invasive form of intervention, because the behavior becomes more likely to persist and expand. The goal is to address behavior quickly, while its manifestation is still minimal and the required response still small.

# TECHNIQUE 56: FIRM, CALM FINESSE

Great classroom managers are steady at the helm. They may show passion when discussing history or science, but when they ask a student to get to work or not to call out answers, they are calm and composed. They act as if they couldn’t imagine a universe in which students wouldn’t follow through, and this, in turn, causes students to follow through. These teachers do their work with finesse, and generally take steps to engage students without conflict.