Make it your goal to transition from one primary reader to another quickly and with a minimum of words—ideally, in a consistent way. “Susan, pick up,” is a much more efficient transition than, “Thank you, Stephen. Nicely read. Susan will you begin reading, please?” The first transaction is more than three times as fast as the second, maximizing the amount of time students spend reading. A couple seconds of difference may seem trivial, but if you transition fifty times per class, those seconds very quickly translate into minutes and hours of lost reading time over the course of the year. Just as important, reducing your transaction cost when switching readers causes less interruption to the text, allowing students to concentrate and keep the narrative thread vibrant, alive, and unbroken. If you make a habit of minimizing transaction cost, you can more easily switch at almost any natural pause in the text, giving you even more control over when to choose a new primary reader. Can you occasionally drop in a “lovely” or a “thank you”? Of course. Though perhaps even better would be to express it with body language or a quiet and appreciative comment while a student was still reading.

Let me show you how those things look in two classrooms: Jill Murray's and Maggie Johnson's.

We'll start with Jill, whose video *Jill Murray: Quartering Act* my team loves because it is from a Social Studies class. *FASE Reading* should happen everywhere. Some aspects of reading are likely domain specific in a way we rarely consider: A nonfiction text about a historical event sounds different from a novel. A scientific text has its own unique conventions and rhythms. Students in Jill's class are developing an ear not just for reading but for historical text.

And of course we love it because of how the students react when she announces *FASE Reading* (she calls it by its then-