The reasons lesson preparation matters relate to cognitive science and the importance of perception, which is one of the most important skills of a teacher. “Experienced teachers develop a high level of sensitivity to students' level of interest, their involvement and their motivation,” Graham Nuthall writes in *The Hidden Lives of Learners*. They “can tell from the atmosphere of the classroom, from the look in the students' eyes, from the questions and answers, from the way they engage in activities, how much the students' minds are engaged. Effective teachers … use these signs to tell whether they need to change what they are doing, to speed up or slow down, to introduce more or less challenge.” Some caution may be warranted—even when we think we know students are engaged (or not) it's good to remember that we can be wrong and that reviewing written student work is a critical check on our assumptions—but for the most part we succeed when and if we perceive what is happening in our classrooms accurately and we make key instructional decisions accordingly. If you do not see the relevant cues, you cannot decide reliably. You will zig when students need you to zag.

But of course it's not quite true that “experienced” teachers do this. Those who have learned most productively from their experiences do, but you could have a twenty-year veteran who still fails to read a room or a first-year teacher whose read on the class is stellar. In fact, the real question is how every teacher can accelerate and improve their process of learning to “read the signs,” as Nuthall puts it. Adeyemi Stembridge argues that responsiveness, too, starts with perception. “We want to sharpen our perception and capacities for leveraging strategies in ways that are most beneficial to students in need of specific support,” he writes.2 A key part of teaching responsively is reading the reactions and needs of our students as we teach. An