“Yes, so it's, 90-degree angles and all four sides are congruent.” Denarius confirms before moving on to the proof: “How can we prove that this is not a square?”

Denarius's standard of correctness is high and that helps make his classroom a rigorous place. And his preparation is impeccable. But the heart of the interaction is something else subtle but powerful called *No Opt Out*, which is the name for the moment when he returns to Aaron, whose initial answer was not correct.

When a student does not answer correctly, teachers often call on another student or provide the correct answer themselves. But the class hearing the right answer is different from the original student understanding it and being accountable, with caring and humanity, for expressing that understanding.

When Denarius returns to him, Aaron explains the difference between his own answer and Anastasia's. The “return” closes the loop and ensures understanding.

There are a variety of ways to return productively in a *No Opt Out*. For example, Denarius could have asked Anastasia not to answer herself but to provide a cue (a focused and productive hint) to Aaron and then returned to him for the answer. Or he could have asked Anastasia for the correct answer but, in returning to Aaron, had him begin by repeating Anastasia's answer in an effort to encode it in long-term memory. Or he could have shared a gold standard definition of a square himself and then returned to Aaron to ask for the gap between the original answer and the model. He could have asked Aaron to both repeat Anastasia's answer and explain the gap between his own and hers. If it had been a problem such as *What's the measure of the angle here?*, he could have given Aaron another example to try and succeed on, upon returning to him. I'll discuss these variations later, but the core idea is