students to use or discuss specific key ideas. For example:

> “Take forty-five seconds to discuss what's happening with your partner. Strive to use the words ‘spindle fibers.’ I'll put it up on the board to help you remember. If your partner doesn't use that phrase, ask them to restate using the key term, as we will be using it when we share out after your conversations.”

## Crest of the Wave and Precise Time Limits

Two general rules of thumb can help you to manage time (and timing) during *Turn and Talks*. The first, *crest of the wave*, relates to the observation that a *Turn and Talk* is almost always a preliminary activity. It's rarely the capstone to work on a topic, but rather a midpoint where ideas are rehearsed and developed before they are harvested, refined, and developed. If you are transitioning from a *Turn and Talk* to an activity that allows for better synthesis, you want students to still be actively wrestling with ideas and eager to take them forward, rather than feeling “done” with an idea as the *Turn and Talk* ends. If it goes on too long and students have talked through all of their ideas, running out of things to say as the clock keeps ticking, this will sap energy and cause students to perceive *Turn and Talk* as an activity in which there's not much urgency to discuss things because there's likely to be dead time to fill. This perception will likely infect behavior in all *Turn and Talks*.

If you were to graph the level of energy during a *Turn and Talk*, it might look like a normal curve with a fat tail at the end. Ideally you would end it at its maximum point, when ideas were bursting and students eager to get to the next steps, before the long slope downward. That's the crest of the wave (see Figure 9.1).

## Precise, Clear Time Limits