A bit of warm and appreciative affirmation like Christine's lets students know you value their efforts. “Thanks for getting *right* to work, James,” “Lindsay is already answering question number one on the *Do Now*,” and the like). Discipline your narration so that it's pithy and precise, and quietly reinforces industrious behavior. Once the opening procedures become routine, use narration with diminished frequency. The goal is to get to a point where you need to say very little—if anything—to set your door to *Do Now* routine in motion. When Christine offers her appreciation, comments are carefully spaced and there's lots of quiet think time. She wants to avoid making her affirmations feel mechanical—this can happen if there are too many and they sound repetitive—and wants to be sure to create a working environment where students can be productive and not have their thinking interrupted.

A couple of key points maximize the effectiveness of the door to *Do Now*:

- It's more efficient to have students pick up their packets from a table than it is for you to try to hand the packets to them at the door. The latter approach slows you down and forces you to multitask when your mind should be on setting expectations and building relationships.

- Students should know where to sit. Time spent milling around, looking for a seat, deciding where to sit, or talking about deciding where to sit (“Can I sit next to him? Will he think I’m flirting?”) is a waste of learning time and energy. Assign seats or allow students to sign up for regular seats.

- Whatever students need to do with homework (put it in a basket, place it on the front left corner of their desk, pass it to a proctor), they should do the same way every