Michelle Wagner, Darryl Williams, and Erica Woolway. I am grateful to each of them, though several played roles in the production of this volume who deserve particular mention.

The videos in this book—and all the videos we use in training and study—were edited and produced by Rob Richard and John Costello. Theirs is both technical and intellectual work—not just showing what a teacher has done on screen but then making it optimally legible to viewers by focusing in on the good stuff without distorting the reality of the classroom overall. This can mean removing the moment when the classroom phone rings or the child in the third row knocks everything off his desk or deciding that two *great* examples of a teacher using *Cold Call* is more useful than five *pretty good* examples. Every video is a sort of visual poem, and John and Rob have authored them all while also building a system to keep track of thousands of such poems. Think for a moment about what it means to keep 20 years of video organized so a team of people can say, “Remember that classroom from the school in Tennessee that we watched about four or five years ago?” and later that day we're all watching it again.

Hannah Solomon serves many roles on our team but one of them was developmental editor for this book. It might not have been “herding cats,” exactly, but only because there was just one cat and “herding” implies that he is heading in the right direction—or at least making something like progress—and you are merely nudging him back on course. Hannah's work included project management—keeping me on task is hard enough; doing that and keeping track of the all the tasks, not to mention all the drafts, is an order of the highest magnitude; now imagine doing it with your most disorganized and distracted student who very earnestly tells you over and over he'll have it by Wednesday when in your heart you know otherwise. Meanwhile, Hannah also provided round after round of gracious and candid