another approach that I saw on Quinetta's paper... ." In introducing Fagan's work, the teacher first establishes that there is plenty of successful work in the classroom, even if they are going to improve something about it. Fagan's first instinct may have been to think, *Oh, I got it wrong*, but in fact she **didn't** get it all wrong. She got a *small piece* of it wrong and a lot of it right. She's doing fine, and he's helping her to see that.

Notice also Denarius's emotional constancy and how he treats the error as being completely normal. As I discuss in *technique 12*, *Culture of Error*, Denarius establishes that mistakes are interesting, valuable even, and definitely not something a teacher gets frustrated at learners about. This is not a culture where people are afraid to discuss a mistake. Why would they be afraid when mistakes have been established as a necessary and helpful part of the learning process and the examination of them is a completely routine part of class?

Students do most of the analysis throughout this *Show Call*, even when he guides them to recognize that they should use the remainder theorem. Denarius doesn't solve the problem; all he really does is tell them how to perceive that their answer does not make sense. Once he's guided them to that realization, they know how to solve it.

*Show Call* is a simple and powerful concept but one that can feel risky to try for some teachers. If you've never done it, you can imagine how you or your students would feel if it didn't work.

In light of that I will describe a typical progression—what *Show Call* might look like at different stages in a classroom so the pathway to a lesson like Denarius's becomes clear. The technique involves shared culture and routines that must be intentionally built. A *Show Call* is unlikely to look