you're the only one in the room. When thirty people are doing it at the same time, the only way to avoid unnecessary collisions or negotiated settlements over who will transition first down this row or that column is to organize it.

A second reason for coordination is that clear procedures and routines are extremely effective at norm setting: “When we are uncertain of how to behave,” Tom Bennett writes, “we look to other people as a safe guide of what to do. This is called social proof, a term coined by Cialdini in 1984. By seeing what others do, we have ‘proof’ that it’s the right thing.” A clear norm not only encourages people to follow, but often gives them comfort. It reduces the anxiety many students feel that they might do the wrong thing and look foolish. As the video *Nicole Warren: Keystone* reveals, Nicole's class is full of routines her students know well. This helps her create a sense of flow and momentum that enhances motivation. There's an unbroken flow of energy. But notice also how happy her students are to know exactly what to do, to see others around them doing the same, and to join with them. To return to a point I made in Chapter Seven, Zaretta Hammond calls the brain “a social organ,” and notes that it “has a ‘contact’ urge, a ‘desire to be with other people.’” This is often reflected in the universality and power of singing—in every culture in the world, singing together is a way of becoming a part of a unified group collective, literally and symbolically. We join our voices—in worship or otherwise—and the emotions of doing so are surprisingly profound. Part of it is the music and part of it is the certainty of belonging created by the coordination. It can be overdone and misused, of course, but it's also profound and elemental. Tom Bennett writes of the psychological benefits of the “collective sensation of being part of a large group sharing goals and activities.”[^1] It reminds students