your head. The idea is that, in speaking to the group, it also corrects those students whom you might not see.

Of course, while you can establish nonverbal accountability for individuals, you keep noncompliers off the public stage. Saying a student's name usually causes people to look at him, and this can cause resentment or sometimes reward (i.e. being looked at is what the student wants). If you make the effort to show that you are trying to solve something without “calling a student out” and while preserving their privacy, the result is usually positive.

## Intervention 3: Anonymous Individual Correction

The next intervention, an *anonymous individual correction*, is similar to a *positive group correction* in that it describes the solution; however, it makes it explicit that there are people (as yet anonymous) who have not yet met expectations. You might combine it with a positive group correction to make it sound like this: “Eyes up here, please [*positive group correction*]. I need two more sets of eyes [*anonymous individual correction*].”

As with the positive group correction, you can supplement an anonymous individual correction with nonverbals, especially eye contact and a quick nod, to establish directly and privately whom you are expecting to fix the situation fast. The combination of verbal group accountability and nonverbal individual accountability can be especially effective.

Laura Baxter does a nice job of this in *Laura Baxter: Orange Row*. Twice she pauses briefly to remind students that their focus needs improving or they need to face forward, but she's always calm and keeps the individuals she's referring to anonymous, although in one case you can see there's some subtle eye contact—subtle enough that you don't see classmates turning around to see who is