run on our educating a diverse array of doctors and engineers, scientists and lawyers, artists, financiers, and tech entrepreneurs.

Here is an example: during COVID, pulse oximeters, the devices used to measure oxygen levels in the blood, were three times more likely to give incorrect readings for people with Black skin than with White, *The Economist* recently reported.10 This is because the devices were designed with more translucent, white skin in mind. Unknown numbers of patients with darker skin in distress were sent home in error due to this design bias. And of course *design bias* exists in a thousand places and will likely continue to live in those places until greater diversity is achieved among the engineers who create and manufacture medical devices. That—per Alfred Tatum's argument—means “disciplinary equity”: highly trained and prepared students of color in advanced science and math courses—and in every other field.

So if social justice to you means marching in protest, I support you. Many of your students may line up behind you, too. But know also that some will want to engineer information systems instead11 and this too is important. Some will choose to lose themselves in the color and composition of the painting they are working on. This too is important. Their right is to be prepared by our schools and our classrooms to go wherever those passions take them. That is also part of social justice: every young person made able to define and pursue their own dream. Is it necessary to point out for the majority of children of poverty, for the majority of Black and Brown children, and just possibly for the majority of children, period, this is not reliably the case?

While the role of teaching in a just and equitable society is my passion, I should note that I do not think that this is a