Formatting the workspace for students helps in other ways too. Whether you include eight blank lines or two after a writing prompt implicitly communicates to students how extensive their answer should be; a “notes” box during a *Turn and Talk* reminds them that they should (or could) take notes on what they discuss.

## Goal 5: Embedded Adaptability

Another detail of Christine's packet worth noticing: a partial answer to the ageless question of what's out there for the strivers who are done first on the *Do Now* or some other question and want to know what's next. Will their teacher have something ready? What if she doesn't see them? Will they have to sit and wait for the class to catch up? What about the kid she doesn't realize is a striver, but who wants to show her he can be? On Christine's *Do Now* there's a challenge question embedded at the end, waiting for the strivers. Strive on.

This is a reminder that better planning does not imply a loss of flexibility—the opposite, in fact. Troy Prep math teacher Bryan Belanger regularly includes more questions in his packets than his students will do in a lesson so that he can jump ahead to harder problems or double back for more review, depending on student progress. Brooklyn teacher Taryn Pritchard divides her independent practice into sections by level of challenge: “mild,” “medium,” and “spicy.” That way she and her students can adapt by adding more “mild” or “spicy” work to their diets, as a group or as individuals; thus, students can speed ahead or double back on their own. Other teachers embed “Challenge” or “Deep Thinking” questions in their packets. Individual students can try them on their own or if things are going well the teacher can use them as a class activity.