choose someone to *Cold Call* because you love their work and the class will benefit from hearing their thinking. Under those conditions, there's scarcely a child who wouldn't want to be *Cold Called*. After all, it's an honor. Or check out the video *Summer Payne: Individual Turns*, which I've retrieved from the archives of *TLAC 1.0* (those super-cute kindergarteners are probably in college by now!) so you could enjoy her singing “individual tu-urns, listen for your na-ame” and be reminded that the positivity of this or any technique is almost always within your control. I mean, your *Cold Call* is your turn. Who doesn't want their turn?

Listening behaviors are also important to establish the positivity of *Cold Call*—think here of Na’Jee’s tilted head listening to Yedidiah. They make the interaction feel like a conversation, not a quiz show, with the positivity deriving from the feeling that the teacher values students’ ideas. A bit of head nodding or other gesturing that communicates something like, *what you are saying now is very interesting*, is always helpful, as is movement. Somehow a teacher who is walking slowly as she listens communicates a kind of professional interest.

Of course the greatest source of positive emotions for students during *Cold Call* is their own success, and it's a powerful motivator. *Cold Call* requires that students engage in an activity that may be challenging, unpredictable, and maybe even cause a bit of healthy tension. And then they succeed. That feeling of success can be powerful, even more so because they've succeeded at something that is hard. This doesn't mean all *Cold Call* questions should be easy—the challenge has to be real. But all the more reason that teachers should plan their *Cold Call* sequences to *begin* with a question that sets students up to succeed as a preamble to greater challenge. Then students, as we saw in