### 1. House on Mango Street, Grade 7

7. Reread these excerpts from "Elenita, Cards, Palm Water" and "Born Bad":

**p. 62**  
Her T.V. is color and big and all her pretty furniture is made out of red fur like the teddy bears they give away in carnivals. She has them covered with plastic. I think this is on account of the baby.

**p. 58**  
But I knew her sick from the disease that would not go, her legs bunched under the yellow sheets, the bones gone limp as worms. The yellow pillow, the yellow smell, the bottles and spoons. Her head thrown back like a thirsty lady. My aunt, the swimmer.

a. Turn and Talk: Use the chart below to contrast these two examples of Esperanza's narration.

| What is the verb tense? | "Elenita, Cards, Palm Water" (p. 62) | "Born Bad" (p. 58) |
|-------------------------|---------------------------------------|---------------------|
| What do you notice about language and syntax? | | |
| What is your impression of Esperanza in each vignette? | | |

b. Why might Cisneros have chosen to use these different narrative voices in each vignette?

©Reading Reconsidered Curriculum

---

### 2. The Giver, Grade 6

4. Consider these lines from p. 143:  
*Now it was ominous. It meant, he knew, that nothing could be changed.*

a. What is "it"?

b. Why does it mean that nothing could be changed?

c. Why might this be ominous for Jonas?

---

### 3. Romeo and Juliet, Grade 8

1. What did the Elizabethans think about each of the following images?

The heavens:  
•  
•  

The sun:  
•  
•  

The moon:  
•  
•  

The stars:  
•  
•  

---

## Some notes about the examples:

- In example 1, the use of a chart helps students keep track of their progress and make sure to answer all parts of a complicated question (three questions about two different excerpts). It also lets the teacher do this as well and to see at a glance how far along students are and to quickly differentiate which part of the task students are struggling with (presumably because they are leaving it blank, writing less, or doing it last).

- In example 2, dividing the task into parts a, b, and c again allows the teacher to Check for Understanding on individual components and quickly assess where students are in the process from a pacing point of view, but here the use of lines reinforces the use of complete sentences versus informal notes in responding.

- In example 3, the scaffolded structure separates the different elements students should be reflecting on