# TECHNIQUE 5: KNOWLEDGE ORGANIZERS

Few schools have had as profound an impact on the education sector as London's Michaela Community School. Founded at a moment when schools were often encouraged to eschew facts and knowledge in favor of transferable “thinking skills,” tiny Michaela dissented, and set about to build a school with a true knowledge curriculum. At first, they were a lonely dissenting voice, but they were unapologetic and unwavering, and several years later their results, combined with a larger researched-based return to the recognition of the crucial role knowledge plays in thinking, have caused the world to sit up and take notice.

One of the key tools in Michaela's work was developed by then-English teacher Joe Kirby. The idea was a Knowledge Organizer, a one-page document that outlines the most important knowledge students need to understand to engage a unit of study. It presents that information in a format designed to make it easy to encode in memory. The idea was straightforward: Students shouldn't have to guess what it is important to remember. Make it clear to them what's most important to know; put it in one place so it's easy for them to study. Over time the idea has caught on. In thousands of schools, each unit begins with a one-page summary of critical background knowledge that allows students to think more deeply about the unit and that forms the framework of their knowledge about the topic after the unit is completed.

The version I recommend may place slightly more emphasis than Joe's on knowledge that students should know at the beginning of the unit to fill in knowledge gaps that might prevent them from understanding the unit, but either way it's both a short-term strategy—it makes students learn