“We are right here,” he continued, pointing to the place in the text where he was reading. He then began again. “Most science fiction writers create believable worlds with familiar elements,” he read, continuing past the point of the original spot check. “Science fiction often contains advanced …” Here he signaled again, whereupon all of his students chimed in: *“technologies!”* Having used *Call and Response* to gather data on who was reading along, and to reinforce their importance of reading along, he could now continue to read, knowing that students were more likely to be reading with him.

**TECHNIQUE 36: MEANS OF PARTICIPATION**

The video *Sadie McCreary: Means of Participation* shows Sadie's AP Chemistry class at Eastern Guilford HS in Greensboro, North Carolina. Sadie is sailing along through the kind of lesson every teacher would wish for. Her students are willing and active participants. They're focused and productive. The lesson feels positive, rigorous, and dynamic. There's no downtime.

First, Sadie outlines a series of questions for students to answer “out loud with a partner.” As she gives these directions the room crackles easily and naturally to life. Students chatter away, on task, without hesitation; everyone's participating. Coming out of the *Turn and Talk*, Sadie *Cold Calls* students warmly and inclusively to check their answers. These follow-up questions make sure the Think Ratio is high, too: “The Celsius temperature scale is based on what, Matthew?” she says.

Matthew is ready for her *Cold Call*, observing that the Celsius scale is based on the freezing point of water, and, with a gentle reminder, also its boiling point. Sadie