Your normal register is somewhere in here.  
It says, “I love talking to you about mitosis.”  

You shift here  
briefly to show  
you need full  
attention. Then  
you shift back.  

Your goal is to  
avoid being  
here unless it  
really is a full-  
on crisis.  

Casual  
Teach  
Formal  
Important Directions  
Urgent  

I should note that I have discussed only two of the three available registers. The urgent register is, for the most part, counterproductive in classrooms, except in the case of absolute emergencies. Using this register increases tension and anxiety. It may be useful if someone is in danger of imminent physical harm, for example, but use it in other situations and you'll likely come off as nervous and panicky or you'll ratchet up the level of tension at exactly the moment when you want things to remain calm. It will just as likely become a self-fulfilling prophecy. If it becomes familiar, students may experience “urgency fatigue” and grow immune to it. Then you won't have it if you ever really need it.  

More relevant to most teachers, however, is that creeping hint of urgency that can sneak into our communication when things aren't going as we'd like. Students aren't following directions and seem to be, perhaps deliberately, not doing what is expected. We speak as if through gritted teeth. Our posture becomes stilted and tense and that tension creeps into our voices, too. We can begin slipping into it without realizing it. My team and I find it useful to practice listening for this, to take a phrase we might say in the classroom and practice saying it casually and formally so we can hear the difference and find the tone that feels right, and then practice saying it in an urgent register so