that our evolutionary self requires is something [or *the thing*, or *the one thing*] that our rational self is most likely to overlook or even scorn.

This is something we can unlock in the classroom. Singing is an obvious example. Watch the joy in the faces of Nicole Warren's students as they start their class signing a math song they know by heart (see *Nicole Warren: Keystone*). It's everything a part of us is socialized to scorn: rote, ritual, memorized, familiar to the point of repetitive. And yet the students are clearly happy. (Note also the joy in their faces at the end of the video when Nicole circulates and helps them to see their accomplishments.) Note that the gestures emphasize the chorality of the experience—people love to “know the moves,” and here knowing the moves is visible and so therefore is the belonging. Our own math song is even better than one lots of people know; we all know the words and can voice in unison something other people don't know about. *Knowing things others don't know or aren't aware of* is a key to belonging.

Music can be a source of joy even when it is not choral. It is unclear why, but every culture on earth sings and creates music. They use those things to define themselves. Some evolutionary biologists suggest that singing predated language as we know it—that before we had words we had music, which allowed us to express emotion and urgent information over distance. We sang ourselves into battle or into comfort afterwards, and this is wired into us. We have evolved with a proclivity for music, so we can assume it had evolutionary benefit in some way and that we evolved to take pleasure in it.

You can hear snippets of song throughout some of the videos in this book, such as Summer Payne in *Cold Call* singing, “individual tur-urns listen for your na-ame,” or Christine Torres in *Format Matters* singing, “don't turn to