> they finished preparing a lesson they could ask themselves, *In the long run, am I on the right path?*

# TECHNIQUE 4: DOUBLE PLAN

Here's something possibly obvious about Christine Torres's lesson preparation—so obvious that it might be easy to overlook even though it's one of the most important things she does.

She's working from a copy of the student packet—the document they are working from throughout the lesson. It's what she holds in her hand as she teaches; it's where she makes her preparation notes. Her starting point, in other words, is a document that outlines what students will be doing at each stage of the lesson. Just the fact that there is such a document is profound. Yes, there's a lesson plan also that Christine can consult if she needs it. It contains more detail about what she will do and how. But more central to the preparation of the lesson is the document that describes what *students* will be doing each step of the way.

A lesson plan describes a series of activities you will lead or topics you will discuss, but what the teacher is talking about or doing is not the same as what students are doing. *Double Planning* describes in detail what *students* will be doing each step of the way. A lesson plan might say that a teacher should lead a discussion about a line in the text. A double-planned lesson would describe what students should be doing during the discussion: jotting down notes about insights their peers make that they find useful, for example. A packet goes a step further and gives them an actual place to do so. A lesson plan might say, “The teacher should read the passage with students.” *Double Planning* clarifies this: What should the students be doing? Is