composition to write. Focus on active verbs.” “Yes,” you’d say, reviewing my work only a matter of seconds after I had completed it. The feedback cycle is suddenly fast and focused and effective.

## Sentence-Level Revision Is High-Quality Practice

To maximize the benefits of practice, Ericsson suggests, the practice should first have well-defined, specific goals. “We’re working on our writing” is insufficiently vague. “We’re working on using active verbs in our writing” or “on incorporating indirect quotations into our writing” or “on starting sentences with prepositional phrases” are clear, specific goals.

We make more progress if we teach larger skills by linking a series of baby steps, aggregating smaller skills into a larger whole. For this we’ll need sentence-level practice to happen frequently. Daisy Christodoulou makes a similar point in her outstanding book, *Making Good Progress*. We presume that the best way to prepare for a task we want to assess is to assign tasks just like it over and over. But this often overwhelms students’ working memory, as cognitive load theory tells us. Students will show more mastery on the final, more complex task if they first build that mastery through practice on discrete, manageable chunks. To put it plainly, your students will write far better three-page compositions if, throughout their time with you, they have been regularly practicing writing and revising excellent sentences.

For maximum benefit, practice also requires a focused mindset and full attention, Ericsson advises. Obviously, this ability to focus is dictated in part by the vibrancy of classroom culture, but shorter activities are an ideal way to maximize the attentive capacity of students at any age. As