likely to learn more by comparing one piece of work to another, rather than to an abstract standard.13 Want students to see the subtle differences between good and great writing? Show them two different examples and suddenly the conversation will accelerate—and the subtler the differences, the more advanced and more nuanced a conversation they will yield. In other words, if you want to do really rigorous study of student writing, compare a very good example to a great one. Or show the class two similar approaches and study how the small differences allow them to achieve different ends. “I want to talk about which one is strongest,” Rousseau tells the class in his reveal. Then notice how he reads the two student answers aloud, one immediately after the other, to make subtle differences as apparent to students as possible.

The video *Rose Bernunzio: Good Catch* also shows the benefit of using *Show Call* to compare two students' work, and it’s worth comparing some of the similarities and differences between Rose’s approach and Rousseau’s. Both begin with a question that emphasizes perception—essentially, what’s the difference—and both intentionally try to boost their ratio in this critical moment, getting every student to discuss via a *Turn and Talk*. They want everyone doing this cognitive work. But whereas Rousseau asks students to “snap it up” for two classmates whom he identifies, Rose deliberately keeps the identities of her students anonymous. Balancing anonymity and credit is a variable you can consider in the “reveal.”

There are also variables in the “take,” the name we use for another key culture-setting part of the *Show Call*, the moment when you take a student's paper. Do you explain why? Do you merely take it and presume it’s understood? Do you ask? In this case, Rose subtly asks the student whose paper she takes. It’s more of a courtesy than anything else. Rose also diffuses the pressure a bit by