during the year 2020. Amy Fandrei and Pete Gaughan at John Wiley & Sons were supportive and understanding, not to mention unflappable, throughout. I hope the result seems close to worth the headaches I caused them.

Rafe Sagalyn continues to guide and support my work as an advocate and agent, and I am grateful to have the guidance of someone so wise whose goal is to help me find my own vision for my writing and bring it to reality.

This book also reflects the insights of a broader community of teachers and educators—in the United States, in England, even around the world—who share their insights and observations with me and each other. Many days I think social media is a pox on civilization but it is also a means through which, thanks to the thousands of teachers who see it as a tool to share knowledge and insights positively and constructively, I have been able to learn an immense amount very quickly. I have tried to quote a few of the teachers whose comments have particularly struck me. I describe a few cases where, in a pickle, I asked a question of my Twitter colleagues and found myself blessed to share in their wisdom and insight. Thank you, then, to everyone who teaches and thus does the most important work in society, and doubly so to those who have shared their knowledge of that work with me.

Finally, as I have written and rewritten three volumes of this book, my own three children have grown up. Needless to say, I love them immensely and am proud of them. They are bigger now, they were littler then, and yet still there is no sacrifice I wouldn’t make for them. But you knew that and I mention it here because the work that I do has always been connected to my own parenting. I wake at night and struggle with some anxiety about my children and I know other parents lie awake struggling too, often with even greater anxieties. I think often of those parents who love