away with her inflection. To understand how that might have happened, consider a roll-back in this situation:

You're studying the water cycle and you ask for an explanation of what happens to water vapor when it reaches the atmosphere. A student replies, “You get evaporation—water vapor forming droplets that become clouds.” This is wrong, of course. He has confused evaporation with condensation.

Saying “You said, ‘You get evaporation—water vapor forming droplets that become clouds,’ ” without discernible emphasis on any word makes your roll-back much more rigorous than if you said something like: “You said ‘You get *evaporation*—water vapor forming droplets that become clouds.’ ” Emphasis on the word “evaporation” points the student to the fact that it is the error and he can much more easily make the correction. So managing inflection as Jessica does in the video builds rigor.

To be fair, if your student still couldn't answer your evaporation question, your next move might be to add some emphasis, but you'd want to start with the least hint possible because you want your student to do as much of the analysis as he can.

Jessica then wraps it up with another nice move. She reinforces Gavin's work positively—“That was really strong thinking” and then asks for positive reinforcement from the class.

# Eliminate Choices

When Jaimie Brillante's student struggled to recognize that *owner* was a noun, Jaimie could have eliminated some false choices as follows: “Well, let's go through some of the options. If it were a verb, it would be an action. Can you or I owner? Well, what about an adjective? Is it telling me