book, renaming techniques or concepts within techniques, and retiring some videos.

I am aware that many readers of *Teach Like a Champion* may have heard critiques of some techniques—Format Matters and what was then called SLANT, for example. And it was with some surprise that, while engaging in the process of revision, I opened my copy of *Teach Like a Champion 2.0* to reread it and was surprised to find how little of what I believed about *why* and *how* I had included in some techniques. You will find those sections of the book in particular extensively revised to help frame them carefully and ensure that all readers fully grasp *why* as much as *how* so they can use them with confidence to help students thrive and succeed. I want to be clear—I think those techniques, done right, are among the most critical levers of success and social justice. You could see that in Christine’s classroom as you will see it in a dozen more. But they are powerful tools, too, so it is important to get them right. Critiques that claim they are a form of tyranny or an effort to “control Black and Brown bodies,” when they are not informed by deliberate distortion, miss the point: The freedoms gained from a culture that asks students to track one another, and where students’ ideas are therefore deliberated, refined, and celebrated, far outweighs the supposed restrictions it imposes. That said, I, too, have been in a room where the application felt wrong. A flawed application does not indict a sound principle—but it does remind us of how important better and more responsive application is.

There were other areas of revision, too. In reading back over my original work I could occasionally see negatively framed examples and at times descriptions that seemed not to assume the best about students. Part of the reason for this was and is my deep appreciation for teachers. My desire for this book is that it will prepare teachers for the