shaped by the opening minutes of a lesson—whether you intentionally engineer them or not.

2. From a *pacing* perspective, a strong, energetic start to your lesson builds momentum. It socializes students to work with discipline, urgency, and efficiency as soon as they walk through the door. Get off to a slow start, and you could find yourself spending the rest of your lesson fighting to rebuild momentum you lost and may never win back.

3. *Strong Start* usually includes a Do Now, which sets the table for mastery by efficiently previewing or reviewing high-quality content students need to master. It builds the academic habits students will need to succeed.

If you stepped inside a highly successful classroom shortly after the bell rang, you would probably find that you could divide the routine students use to start the lesson into three parts: (1) from door to *Do Now*, (2) *Do Now*, and (3) review of the *Do Now*.

The first component of *Strong Start* comprises how students get from the door to their *Do Now*. Unlike *Threshold*, which immediately precedes students' entry into the room and focuses on setting behavioral norms and expectations, from the door to *Do Now* is about making a habit out of what's efficient, productive, and scholarly as students take their seats.

A typical arrangement might look something like this: as soon as students cross the threshold of the classroom door, they pick up a packet of materials from a table or counter just inside as Sadie McCleary does. In some cases, especially at the elementary grades, packets might already be at students' desks. You can see that Christine Torres has done this at the outset of her lesson in the video *Christine Torres: Silently to Your Seats*.