They include the *Swivel* and the *Chin Up* described earlier in addition to the *Sprinkler*, an adaptation of the *Swivel* wherein a teacher starts to Swivel then momentarily doubles back midstream in the direction she'd just scanned as if to say, momentarily, “Oh, I think I just saw something. No. Everything is OK.” It makes the deliberateness of the scan more visible. We called it the *Sprinkler* because someone in the room noticed that it looked like the 1980s dance move of the same name, and the gag was on. We started to give dance names to all the *Be Seen Looking* moves. Here are a few more of our favorites:

**The Invisible Column:** A teacher moves his head slightly to the side after giving a direction as if he's trying to look around something (an invisible column). You can see Rodolfo Loureiro model his version of this timeless move in the video *Montage: Be Seen Looking*.

**The Tiptoes:** A teacher stands for a moment on her tiptoes while looking out at the room, as if she's just making doubly sure everything is OK in some hard-to-see spot in the room. Kirby Jarrell models an especially impressive version of this in the video *Montage: Be Seen Looking*.

**The Disco Finger:** A teacher traces the track of her gaze in a *Swivel* with her finger outstretched, pointer style, like one of the killer disco moves you haven't dusted off in a decade or two. It intimates, *Let me just check all of these places* and makes the Swivel obvious to those who are least likely to notice it. Tamesha McGuire takes this to the next level with her kindergartners in the video *Montage: Be Seen Looking*. Obviously, her goal here is to make her action especially visible to her little ones. Just a hint of disco finger, low, subtle, perhaps with your finger about at