instead of the one they were asked. This could be because they misunderstood what you were specifically asking or because they understood one aspect of the text or question better than another and want to keep the discussion in “safe” territory. Thus students often need reminders to answer the actual question. “Yes, she's an inspiring hero. But just to bring us back a bit, the question was about how we'd characterize her relationship to her sister.”

**Heartfelt Topic:** Students may feel more comfortable sharing personal opinions, anecdotes, and affective responses because these opinions and observations are low-risk ways to engage with challenging material (and are unlikely to feel like “wrong” answers). And it's easy as a teacher to want to reinforce and respond to stories that start “something this made me think of that happened to me once was …” Sometimes the best response is to say, “Love that you're making connections, but for now let's stay focused on the question at hand… .”

**Vague Vagaries:** Students who are hazy on the details might respond in vague language, relying on pronouns or abstractions instead of names and concrete details. Rather than assuming we know (and the class knows) what they mean, we can push for precision, ensuring that we're all on the same page while helping students practice specificity in their language. We might say, “When you say “she gave it to her,” just tell us who ‘she’ is and who is the ‘her’ that she gave it to.”

To see *Right Is Right* in action, look at the video of Jennie Saliba's Year Five (fourth-grade) class at Great Yarmouth Academy in Great Yarmouth, England, where students are reading a nonfiction text on factory workers' lives in Dickensian England. “What made life in the workhouse so