class. “On a few of *our* papers, I'm noticing that *we're* getting an incorrect remainder ...” he says. The mistake is ours; it's relevant to and reflective of the group, not just the individual. There's no feeling that Fagan has been singled out.

Another important characteristic of classrooms like Denarius’s has to do with how error itself is dealt with. It is best captured in a phrase math teacher Bob Zimmerli uses in the video *Culture of Error Montage*: “I'm so glad I saw that mistake,” he tells his students. “It's going to help me to help you.” His phrase suggests that the error is a good thing. He calls the class to attention to show it is a worthy and serious topic, but he simultaneously normalizes the error through tone and word choice.

This is different from—the opposite of in many ways—pretending it is not really an error. Notice that Bob explicitly identifies the mistake as a mistake. His goal is to make it feel normal and natural, not to minimize the degree to which students felt they had erred. I mention this because sometimes teachers struggle with this distinction. In workshops we occasionally ask teachers to write phrases that they could use to express to students the idea that it is normal and useful to be wrong. They sometimes suggest responses like “Well, that's one way you could do it,” or “Let's talk about some other ways,” or “OK, maybe. Good thinking!”

These phrases blur the line between correct and incorrect or avoid telling students they are wrong. There are, of course, times when it's useful to say, “Well, there's no right answer, but let's consider other options.” But that is a very different moment from the one in which a teacher should say something like “I can see why you'd think that but you're wrong, and the reasons why are really interesting,”