be “punchy”—short and delivered with a change of tone or pace. The cues in the video have this in common. We want students bursting out of the blocks. The synchrony of everyone taking action at once makes the norm more visible and reinforces it. “Go!” is a great punchy cue—as in *One minute to think in writing. Go!*—but there are alternatives: Hasan says “Eyes in” and Tamesha uses the slightly more playful “Go to work.”

The second key aspect of the activation step is that it be *clear cut*. The less gray area, the better. “Where possible, actions should be things that can be considered done or not done, rather than partially done.” It’s clear, then, whether the routine is happening successfully and productively. That’s why pencils moving is such an ideal first step. If students’ pencils are moving, Silent Solo is happening. If they are not, it is not the habit you had envisioned and therefore not serving students to the best possible effect. Some teachers’ in-cue when establishing the routine is “Pencils moving. Go!” Later they remove the “Pencils moving” part.

The importance of a crisp start raises an important question, however. Students, understandably, may ask for time to think before they write. As I discuss in [technique 38](#), *Everybody Writes*, thinking through writing is, for most students, a new way of processing and students will initially want to process in the way they perceive themselves to have been most successful in the past, by first reflecting and then writing. This is where your rollout to students is key. You might say something like: “When I say go, please do your best to answer question 2 in your packet. This exercise is not for a grade—what you write is for you and you won’t turn it in.³ Challenge yourself to think in writing! I will expect to see your pencils moving the whole time. Go!” Or you might say, “It will be hard, but push yourself. You will learn to write your way through