you might expect. If you ask students for a definition and get an example, try saying, “Kim, great example, but we need a definition.” After all, knowing the difference between an example and a definition matters and students need authentic opportunities to practice responding accurately to each type of question.

When student responses are vague, you can respond with a slightly different approach—asking for technical vocabulary or precise language. A student might indeed answer your question, but answer it like a horoscope—in such generalities that the answer could apply to any person or situation. Whereas *good* teachers get students to develop effective right answers using terms they are already comfortable with (“Volume is the amount of space something takes up”), *great* teachers get them to use precise technical vocabulary they're developing comfort with (“Volume refers to the cubic units of space an object occupies”). This response expands student vocabularies and builds comfort with the knowledge students will need throughout the unit (and even when they are in college). These teachers ask for specificity and follow up to reinforce.

To help you remember the scenarios in which we're most at risk of failing to set a high bar for right answers, here are four common scenarios and names to help recall them:

1. Hold out for all-the-way right: When we resist “rounding up” and saying that a student is right when he or she is only partially so.

2. Answer my question: When we push students to be disciplined about answering the question they were asked.

3. Specific vocabulary: When we ask students to lock down the details in precise words and technical