out. If you're not sure of exactly what a great answer should contain, you won't be able to hold students to an exacting standard. Therefore, *Exemplar Planning* (technique 1) can help you do some of the “Is that good enough?” and “Is that all-the-way right?” thinking in advance. Of course this doesn't mean you can't override your initial model answer when you're surprised by an unexpected insight from a student; it just means you've started with a more concrete sense of the end goal, particularly for the most critical questions.

## Keeping “Almost There” Phrases in Your Back Pocket

A final reason why we sometimes accept answers that are less than fully correct is that we are not neutral observers of our own lessons. At the end of the day, we evaluate ourselves as teachers based in large part on how much we think our students learned. It's not just our students we're assessing but also ourselves, and we have a vested interest in telling ourselves that our students were successful. In a sense, if we give students credit for a correct answer, we give ourselves credit too. The phrase “I know what she was trying to say,” which is sometimes heard among teachers, acknowledges the problem; the unsaid second part of the sentence is, “but she didn't actually say it.” A lifetime of caring about students, of wanting to believe in them, and wanting to believe we've served them well puts us at risk of giving full credit for partial answers and pits us against some of our strongest impulses as educators.

Getting the most out of *Right Is Right* often means crafting two-part phrases that capture how we feel about our students' effort on one hand and how correct their answer was on the other. This makes it easier to be honest about both—that you *like what they've done so far* and that they're *closing in on the right answer*, that you *think they*