starting point I might recommend doing it for the most important question or two in every lesson.

Throughout this book I talk about the critical nature of perception. Teaching is a decision-making endeavor and to make the right decisions we have to approach the work in a way that maximizes our ability to see and understand what we are seeing. Planning for error increases the likelihood that we will see misunderstandings and be able to make sound decisions about what steps to use to adjust our lesson plan. And, frankly, the likelihood that we will be brave enough to act on them under duress.

But there's another aspect of perception at work here, too. Teachers are experts in their domain and this means they perceive differently from their students, who are novices. A study by Chi, Glaser, and Feltovich revealed how novices and experts perceive differently. Studying novices and experts solving physics problems, they noted that “whereas novices categorize problems by the surface structure of the problem,” experts saw “deep structure” to categorize and solve them.5 Novices might observe that two problems involved moving objects and try to solve them similarly, Carl Hendrick and Paul Kirschner note in discussing the study, but experts would quickly see that one was an acceleration problem and the other a constant velocity problem. “What you know determines what you see,” Hendrick and Kirschner conclude, and this represents a double challenge. First, novices don't know as much and so don't perceive things as well as experts and, second, experts are not often aware of this or at least cannot easily unsee what they notice as a result of their expertise. It takes practice to see what people who know less about a topic will not understand. The discipline of planning for error and testing those predictions is the process of investing in your ability to see beyond this expert-novice divide and into the cognitive lives of your students.