steps necessary to teach, remind, and acculturate your students to use *Wait Time* effectively and ensure it is as productive as it can be.

## Step 1: Narrate Hands

As I discussed earlier, students are more likely to think productively about a question if they expect to answer it. The degree to which students think during *Wait Time* is in part a function of their expectations about what's going to happen next. If students expect to use the ideas they generate, they are likely to put *Wait Time* to good use. *Cold Calling*, the technique I will come to next, is one way to address this—it makes it possible that anyone might be called on and so socializes readiness and engagement during time allotted for thinking. But being *Cold Called* is far from a surety and even better and more reliable, is students' own expectations of their likely actions. A student who thinks, “I seek to raise my hand” is a student who does the thinking. If students believe that what one does after time spent thinking is to offer to share ideas, if they expect to raise their hands, they have internalized a belief that causes them to engage in active thinking. The correlation is imperfect, of course, but if the expectation—I will probably raise my hand—becomes the norm, optimal thinking is likely to as well.

Sadly though, there are a great many classrooms where hands in the air are infrequent or limited to a few students, and where nonparticipation is a matter of course, sometimes a norm. In such classrooms, *Wait Time* will be less effective and the ratio will be lower. If the productivity of the *Wait Time* is influenced by the likelihood of a hand being raised afterwards, one productive move, especially early in the year, is to encourage, foster, and socialize hand-raising by narrating hands.