dust, requiring diligence and humility, but its rewards are immense. It is a worthy life's work.

Traveling abroad during my junior year in college, I saw Picasso's school notebooks on display at the Picasso Museum in Barcelona. What I remember best are the sketches filling the margins of his pages. These weren't sketchbooks, mind you. These were notebooks like those every student keeps: notes from lectures. The tiny sketches memorialized a teacher's face or Picasso's own hand grasping a pencil, with perfect perspective, line, and shading. I had always thought Picasso's work was about abstraction, about a way of thinking that rendered the ability to draw accurately and realistically irrelevant. His sketches told another story, bearing witness to his mastery of fundamentals and constant drive to refine his skills. Even in the stray moments of his schooling, he was honing the building blocks of his technique. He was an artisan first and then an artist, as the fact that he filled, by one count, 178 sketchbooks in his life further attests.

This book is about the tools of the teaching craft and so I hope it will be useful to teachers everywhere. But it takes a special interest in the sector of the profession that is most important to me personally: public schools, particularly those that serve primarily students of poverty and who therefore walk a narrow and uncertain path to the opportunity they deserve. It should not be that to be born with fewer financial resources restricts one's opportunity, certainly not in a nation that believes in meritocracy, but the truth is what it is. The price of failure in schools serving students on the wrong side of the privilege gap is often high, the challenges significant. Teachers there often work in a crucible where our society's failures are paramount and sometimes seem nearly overwhelming. Still, every day in every such neighborhood, there are teachers who without much fanfare take the students who others say