activities that students know how to do well, Jessica creates a feeling of flow. Students are constantly engaged but often in new ways. They shift from reading to writing in their reading response journals in a matter of seconds, because they've done it so many times. Stopping to explain a new activity they hadn't done before—for example, “We're going to do a new kind of writing today; let me explain how it works ...”—would result in a lot of downtime while she explained all the details and while her students internalized the process, using valuable working memory capacity to follow a new set of directions. Even though it might seem as though a new activity would be more interesting, it would be as likely to have the opposite effect. (You can read more about the power of academic systems and routines in [Chapter Ten]().)

After a minute or two of discussion, Jessica's students go back to reading. In fact, Jessica repeats the same cycle again: students read, write in their reflection journals, and discuss throughout the class, with the cycles getting longer and the questions getting harder over time.

At a recent workshop, teachers shared that the shorter recurring cycle of read-write-discuss was different from what they tended to do in their classes. They did the same three activities, but in long, “nonrecurring” chunks. For example, in a typical class, they might read for fifteen to twenty minutes, write for five to ten minutes, and discuss for another ten to fifteen minutes, before tackling an *Exit Ticket* and wrapping up. As Jessica demonstrates, you can bring energy and engagement to your class merely by breaking those chunks into shorter cycles of the same activities.

# TECHNIQUE 28: BRIGHTEN THE LINES