and how much time on the written reflection afterwards. This helps you to see more quickly when you're getting behind. Time is finite so these are important trade-offs and the right decisions might change. It might be different for third period (honestly, they could use some time to slow down and think about other people's opinions) versus fifth period (they could learn to verbalize a bit more). It might be different on Wednesday than on Tuesday. It might be different Wednesday *because* of Tuesday, so if you planned on Monday you might want to go back through and update your time allocations as close to when you teach as possible.

Christine has done this on page 6 of her lesson. Next to the annotation box where students take notes on the reading, she's allocated five minutes. Next to question five she's allocated three minutes. When she says: *two minutes on the clock to write your answers*, that's because she's planned it: two minutes to write and one to hear an answer out loud. Then we move on. She gives seven minutes to the question about the fairy tales. There are going to be eager hands wanting to read their answers to question 5. The temptation will be to hear more and more of them. But Time Stamping lets Christine see that it's a trade-off between that and getting to the rest of the lesson, and she chooses the latter. She is prioritizing: The question about fairy tales is more important than some other things: more critical to understanding the book; more central to the writing they'll be doing. It's hard to prioritize when we want kids to learn everything, but even imperfect compromises made with foresight are better than the accidental prioritization of, “Whoops, we're out of time.” After all, what comes last is often there because it helps us make sense of what we've done. It's likely to be important. Maybe that's why at one point Christine's notes remind herself: “Do Not need to capture all examples!” and: “Can