I'll discuss working memory—essentially what you are conscious of thinking about—more in *Chapter One*, but when you are thinking hard about something and your working memory is full, the quality and depth of your perception is reduced. If you're driving a car while talking to your significant other on the phone, you're far more likely to misjudge the rate of approach of an oncoming vehicle and have an accident. It's not so much that your *hands* aren't free but that your working memory isn't. In critical moments, doing one thing implies not doing another. That's true for students and it's true for teachers. If you're trying to remember the answer you wanted students to give while they're answering you, you won't hear what they say as accurately as you could. But write the answer out and glance at it even briefly and it will make a profound difference. You will hear your students’ thinking more clearly.

Cognitive psychology was also increasingly clear about the importance of background knowledge and long-term memory so I added new techniques based on how teachers were applying *Retrieval Practice* and *Knowledge Organizers*. Dylan Wiliam has called Cognitive Load Theory “the single most important thing for teachers to know,” and you'll see its relevance throughout the book and especially in *technique 21, Take the Steps*. Eventually I decided to add *Chapter One*, as well, which summarizes key principles that might compose a strong mental model of classroom instruction—a mental model being itself something cognitive psychologists had identified as necessary to guide strong decision making.

That the book was changing was inevitable—not only because of the useful and sometimes brilliant adaptations I saw teachers make but also because of honest and earnest mistakes. There were classrooms I'd visit that took my breath away and also classrooms where a teacher was