because this value right here is incorrect,” he says. He is able to spot the incorrect value quickly and easily because he has the ideal answer ready to compare it to. He doesn’t have to strain to keep all of the information in his working memory. About a second is enough to remind him.

Julia Addeo does something similar in the clip *Julia Addeo: Keystone*, which I’ll also discuss more fully in the “Check for Understanding” chapter. The first thirty-seven seconds show her comparing students’ work to her exemplar and quickly and easily spotting their mistakes by comparing their work to the exemplar. She’s able to move fast and get to multiple students. But she’s also able to free more of her working memory to think about why they are making these mistakes and what she can do about it. You can see her do this. She steps back from her observations to think about how she wants to address the misconceptions she’s seeing and, in so doing, glances again at her exemplar. “What should be happening to make this process go right?” she appears to be asking herself. The exemplar helps her to see that clearly.

In *The Checklist Manifesto*, the science writer Atul Gawande describes situations in which trained professionals use a similar tool—checklists—to assess the final outcome of a process. “Under conditions of complexity,” he writes, checklists “are required for success.” Good checklists “provide reminders of … the most critical and important steps. They allow for precision and efficiency. The user can make sure the final result is thorough and preserve working memory in assessing it at the same time.” A lot like an exemplar, in other words, with the difference being that an exemplar can be narrative and each element need not be satisfied in a particular order. Both tools are valuable because they discipline the process of looking and free working memory. Interestingly, Gawande argues that checklists are most valuable in two