doesn't answer it with their full effort and reflection. So lesson preparation should involve drafting a plan for how you will engage students in your questions with intentional decisions—a few *Cold Calls* at the outset to engage everyone. A few *Stop and Jots* to push for deeper thinking in the middle, and to give them the chance to write and rehearse their ideas. Some *Turn and Talks* to keep the energy rolling. Of course because you've planned these things doesn't mean you can't change them. It just means you start with a game plan, and, as we learned earlier from James Clear, then you're more likely to do the things you want to do instructionally.

**Plan for Who:** The next question after you've decided how students will participate is often: who. One of the reasons to not always take hands or let students call out is “voice equity.” The ideas of quiet students—the ones who think more deliberately, the ones who worry about how they might come across if they volunteer to speak—matter, too. So if you are *Cold Calling* or taking hands, thinking about whom you want to call on is often critical. A *Cold Call* might be a perfect tool to use at a given moment to get a little “voice equity” and ensure that everyone feels central to the discussion. But whom will you call on? Just *Cold Calling* would not solve the problem if, in the moment, you called on one of your students who always had their hand up anyway. Your decisions about the right *Means of Participation*—in this case *Cold Call*—will be much stronger if you have also thought through who would most benefit from being invited into the conversation or who might add the most to it.

When you plan whom to call on, you might think about individual students—it may be James you want to check in on or draw out—or certain characteristics of students—if a student who I think is often a reliable bellwether has got it wrong, lots of people probably do, say. Sometimes, I might