course it's the ideal kind of professional development because it happens before teachers teach their lessons. It makes them better now rather than in some far-off sunny day next year when they teach the book again. Of course if your department doesn't offer this kind of professional development you can do it virtually, finding colleagues elsewhere with whom to spar.

For this reason the English curriculum we've developed comes with exemplar student answers in the teaching material, but our recommendation is always that teachers not read them until they have written their own. You learn more when you've thought it through in advance. That said, we also script exemplars because it helps our lesson designers to refine their questions. If they struggle to answer or don't like their answer, well, they know the question has to change—a fact we mention because for those teachers who do write their own lesson exemplar planning is an even more powerful step.

## TECHNIQUE 2: PLAN FOR ERROR

In Chapter One I discussed Christopher Chabris and Daniel Simons' observations about inattentional blindness, our frequent tendency simply not to see what is right before our eyes. The one proven way to eliminate it, they write, is to “make the unexpected object or event less unexpected.”4 A critical step in preparing to teach is recognizing that in a complex visual environment, what we have prepared ourselves to look for is what we are likely to notice. This means that anticipating specific mistakes we think we're likely to see from students can be as valuable as exemplar planning. One of the most productive questions you can ask yourself is: *What will they get wrong?* Or perhaps *What will they misunderstand?*