the moment. If it works, you return to your original plan but with the timings all a mess. If it fails, well, then you're really stuck. But if you've anticipated the likely errors you're going to see you can also plan what you'd do about them. And planning that response—building some if/then contingency into your lesson (if X happens, then I will do Y) makes you more likely to take action. You've removed the disincentive of improvising live in front of thirty students.

So by planning for error you're more likely to see the error if it happens and you're more likely to act on it. To do the things teachers do successfully in the Check for Understanding chapter, that is, teachers must prepare for mistakes.

A second way planning for error helps you take more productive action is that it helps you to treat your observations like data—another topic discussed more fully in the chapter on Check for Understanding. Watch again the moment 44 seconds into the clip Denarius Frazier, Remainder when Denarius makes a tiny hash mark on his clipboard in response to a student's struggle to find the remainder. Denarius does not take the time to write down “reminders” or “struggling to use remainder theorem.” Why? He is able to make a hash mark because he has already written that phrase down before the lesson. On his clipboard Denarius has a list of possible errors. Now he can merely begin quantifying them when and if he sees them. There are six hash marks next to “struggling to use remainder theorem.” Denarius might have planned three potential errors his students could make. His planning allows him to see quickly which ones they're actually making and how often. Planning for errors in advance makes it much easier to turn observations into data during a lesson.