end, to say the things their parents said to them to their own children. Education is a long game and parents are counting on us to take the long view. You can hear this in the interviews in Robert Pondiscio's outstanding *How the Other Half Learns*. Among the most gut-wrenching are the parents whose own educations were unsuccessful, and who seek schools and classrooms that will prevent the same outcome from befalling their children. “I got lost in the system,” one mother tells Pondiscio, “and I refuse to let that happen to my son.” The sense of desperation is palpable.

Part of teaching well is teaching students to choose a path that is steep and rocky, that they will sometimes complain about. It’s a long way up and perhaps others appear to be on what seems like an easier path, even if it does not lead to the summit. The steeper path involves not just harder work but *psychologically* harder work—for teacher as much as student. It involves slowly pulling off Band-Aids. It involves knowing that love is sometimes paradoxical.

If you seek justification for doing what is easy, this book will not likely please you. That said, there are many books that will. If your purpose is to find the most effective and caring way to do what needs doing to best serve students, even when it is difficult—especially when it is difficult—my goal is to provide that. If that is the book you are looking for, please turn the page.

## Notes

1. The idea began with Paul Bambrick-Santoyo and his team at Uncommon Schools.

2. See *The Coddling of the American Mind: How Good Intentions and Bad Ideas Are Setting Up a Generation for Failure* (New York: Penguin Books, 2018).