Don't try to deny it. As soon as you read the words *introductory prepositional phrases*, the music stopped and the party ended. A few readers crossed themselves reflexively at the sound of those ancient pagan words. *Oh, others thought, he's going in for “grammar.” I knew he was old school, but ...*

Grammar, as all good people know, is cruel to children. Most modern teachers will tell you that it is of limited use, the passion of ancient scolds, only faintly visible, now, in the chalk dust of time.

“For me, grammar instruction is about sentence structure,” writes Daisy Christodoulou. “It's about helping students to marshal their thoughts into coherent, logical sentences.”^7 Its purpose is syntax, and mastery of syntax remains something that we can teach joyfully and successfully without memorizing a thousand terms, like *adverbial modifier*.^8 Syntactic forms are magical tools and, happily, carefully designed writing exercises can develop them.

Coordination and subordination are good examples. When used adroitly those *ands* and *buts* and *sos* and *despites* are tools of syntax. They wander the earth humbly seeking to explain to us the ways that ideas are connected. They quietly tell us: *There are two ideas here, but one is more important than the other. Or caused the other. Or the second idea is contingent upon the other happening first. Or contrasts with the first.*

It is a superpower, when a person can coordinate and subordinate deftly and smoothly. The connections between ideas often create the lion's share of the meaning. But they are also where it all comes apart for many students, in reading as well as writing. When reading complex text, the words and phrases within a sentence may be clear enough on their own, but piecing together the interrelationships among them can still pose a problem. Your student