connection. They reinforce a sense of community in the classroom throughout the discussion.

Perhaps this is why I often see positive outlier teachers reinforce this expectation in class, either verbally—“Great; turn to Janelle and tell her that”—or nonverbally, with a brief point of the finger or eyes reminding students to look at the person they're responding to. They're reminding their students of how important it is for people who intend to discuss an idea to talk to each other.

Now let's upgrade Michelle's response even a little more. If Michelle said, “I read that passage differently, Jabari. I don't read Lincoln's words as ‘conflicted,’” her words “I read that passage a little differently” show that she is relating her argument to his. *I agree that these are important words; here's a different way to think about them.* Making the effort to frame the connection shows that she thinks Jabari's comment was important. Participants who, like Michelle, tacitly reference preceding comments via syntactical structures embedded within the grammar of their sentences, make them important. Some typical phrases that do that include:

- “I understand why you'd say that, but ...”
- “I was just thinking of something similar, that ...”
- “And then there was another example of that ...”
- “The thing that doesn't take into account is ...”
- “I want to build on what you said ...”

In each of these examples—whether the new speaker is agreeing with the first speaker, disagreeing with her, or somewhere in between—the comment begins by framing the relationship between the present comment and the previous one, ideally in some respectful way. Teaching