me, and in that case, my goal is to help you get a little better at them, perhaps seeing useful applications and variations you haven't considered. Either way, your growth is at least as important as that of a novice teacher. Teaching is the best and most important work in our society. Those who do it deserve to experience constant growth and learning. That, after all, is what we wish for our students.

If you lead a school, I hope this book will help you in helping teachers do this challenging work as successfully as possible. In our field, the first obligation of an organization is to help its people succeed. When teachers end the day with a sense of accomplishment, when they feel they are both successful and growing more so, they stay in our schools for a long time, do outstanding work, work joyfully, and inspire others, and thus pay the organization back many times over.

The pages that follow are an effort to describe and organize the tools used by game-changing teachers, and to reflect on how and why they use them so that you can make informed decisions of your own.

My work has not been to invent the tools I describe here but to explain how others use them and what makes them effective. This has meant putting names on techniques in the interest of helping create a common vocabulary with which to analyze and discuss the classroom. The names may seem like a gimmick at first, but they are one of the most important parts. If there were no word democracy, it would be a thousand times harder to have and sustain a thing called “democracy.” We would forever be bogged down in inefficiency—“You know that thing we talked about where everyone gets a say ...”—at exactly the moment we needed to take action. Teachers and administrators must be able to talk quickly and efficiently with colleagues about a