the wall ‘cuz the wall don't care.” And every time you use Call and Response ([technique 35](#)) you are in fact using a sort of simple chanting: *together in one voice*, you are saying, we all belong.

So singing, especially shared songs, can be a source of joy. But it can also remind us of how profound coordinated activity is to building a sense of belonging. Even sharing the experience together of hearing a text read aloud or reading a text aloud together as a group (see [technique 24](#), FASE Reading), taking turns and bringing a whole to life through our efforts as individuals can awaken this feeling—the construction of a whole in which we subsume our individuality briefly and emerge gratified and infused with a sense of belonging and meaning.

Knowing “what to do” makes us feel as if we belong. Perhaps this explains the unexpected happiness students sometimes exude in learning the routines of the classroom. We think we're teaching a tool for efficiency but students are receiving a signal that they belong. Done well, known routines and choral behaviors can be the seeds of membership.

Several pages back, now, I also mentioned “flow” and this too is critical to understanding the difference between joy and fun: We like to lose ourselves in a challenging activity that sweeps us up in its momentum. We are often happiest when this happens. Any coach will tell you that one of the biggest teaching challenges in a sports setting is breaking the flow. You blow the whistle to talk about how the defense should be positioned and after a few seconds you start to see a gradual lurking frustration: *We want to play, Coach; please stop talking so we can play.* This reminds us that the core activity and its design are critical and that when they are well designed, joy is powerful because it is sprinkled in small moments—playful, silly, absurd, expressing belonging