your own problem, which is great. I need you to do *that* problem” [as she points to the board].

Having everyone complete a gatekeeper problem before they move on to the full problem set lets Hilary correct small misunderstandings and reinforce working carefully and it helps students see that they are “ready” for a larger task, when they work carefully and attentively.

You can see a useful adaptation of this idea with older students in the clip *Jessica Madio: Silent Hand When You Have It*. Flipping the idea of an *Exit Ticket*, which her seventh-graders at St. Athanasius School in New York City are familiar with, Jessica uses an entrance pass prior to a section of independent practice. Getting it right shows you're ready to work on your own successfully.9

Jessica has *Standardized the Format* so answers are easy for her to find and assess quickly, and she tells students to raise “a silent hand when you have it. I'll come around and I'll check it.” Instead of checking students based on seating plan, Jessica has given students agency over when their work will be checked. They are familiar with this routine and jump into the problem on cue. As each student finishes and raises a hand, Jessica simply says, “Thank you,” and checks off the problem if it's correct. Students then transition immediately to independent practice problems without additional directions. Of course Jessica is also using *Active Observation* and taking notes on which students struggle and why. She uses this data to call a handful of students to work at the back table with her. These students have all made a similar mistake, and so they get additional support while others work independently. When they appear to be able to solve on their own, she sends them back to practice independently. Jessica offers a great reminder that classroom differentiation starts with data gathering.