# Chapter 12  
## Building Student Motivation and Trust

This is a book about the tools teachers can use to build dynamic and inclusive classrooms that foster the greatest amount of learning and achievement possible and ensure that students thrive. But even seemingly successful methods, Adeyemi Stembridge reminds us, “can fall utterly flat” if they don’t find receptiveness among students.

This receptiveness is fostered via cultural and relational means. We must seek to make all students feel known and understood by their teacher, experience connection to the content, and trust in the endeavor of school. But there are psychological aspects, mindsets held internally by students that are critical factors in whether we (and they) succeed. Motivation is first among these. Learning requires effort, self-discipline, struggle, and perseverance; students will have to give and sustain effort and attention to succeed. They will have to decide, in short, that learning is worth working for.

It is hard to help a student achieve something they are not motivated to learn. For some students, motivation is a bright flame that merely has to be protected and fed with opportunity; for others it has scarcely (yet) been sparked. With some students we have to do everything we can to keep them in the game until they come to see the value of playing: They need, but do not yet want, what schools offer. The range of students we encounter is wide, but in almost every case, engendering and fostering the internal desire to learn is a part of the work of teaching, one in which we are always engaged, whether we realize that or not.