will not be that way. Csikszentmihalyi's chosen name for this state, flow, underscores that it is connected somehow to a perception of motion, of steady forward momentum, and this is something you could feel keenly that day in Sadie's classroom.

Teachers frequently use the term *pacing* to describe the aspects of Sadie's lesson that gave it forward motion, but the underlying idea is difficult to pin down. It has something to do with momentum, but pacing can't just be a synonym for how fast you go through content. While Sadie moved quickly from one question to the next, the class never felt rushed; in fact, while it seemed like things were always changing, Sadie stayed focused on just one or two topics.

There's something ironic there. The work of teaching and learning can feel fast when you're moving slowly—and it can feel slow when you're moving fast. Sometimes you're working on problem after problem, for example, determining the slope of a line or deep-reading just a few paragraphs of *To Kill a Mockingbird*, but there's energy crackling in the air. Sometimes you're discussing three chapters on the American Revolution, but the minutes tick slowly away, and students stare blankly. We sometimes assume that a plodding lesson results from our overall choice of methodology: “You shouldn't lead the review; you should let them review!” But the desperate slowing of the classroom clock can just as likely happen in a less traditional setting. Who hasn't found themselves fanning barely smoldering interest during a “student-led discussion” they had assumed would excite students?

So pacing is different from the speed at which you cover content and it's not necessarily about methodology. It's more like your students' perception of progress as you teach, that is, *the illusion of speed*. A teacher with strong