solutions available and engage other carpenters in discussing them with precision.

It's the same, of course, for teachers—or at least this book is an effort to make it that way. Want to engage more students more intentionally in the work of thinking? Try a *Cold Call*—that is, calling on students regardless of whether they've volunteered—and doing so with warmth and genuine interest in their answers—“inclusively,” as I like to describe it. Even so, a wide range of adaptations are possible with the *Cold Call*. Asking the question before stating the name of the student you are calling on can cause other students to answer the question in anticipation of possibly being called on themselves. Breaking apart a large question into smaller ones can involve more students in answering. *Cold Calling* a second student to respond to the first answer can help socialize pupils to listen carefully to one another. We can call those things *timing the name, unbundling, and follow-on*.¹ To name the details of a technique and its adaptations leaves a trail of bread crumbs that you can use to refine its use.

But technique and the ability to describe it are not enough. We execute, many of us, nearly a thousand lessons a year—some we've designed ourselves and some in which we bring someone else's blueprint to fruition. We do this with thirty seventh graders on a Tuesday morning. And then again with thirty different seventh graders that afternoon, at which point the second group will surely remind us that we never teach the same lesson twice. Expertise—making the plan come out right for each class—means solving for a steady stream of variables and contexts. Your lesson plan assumed that students would understand *juxtaposition*, but they don't. You thought students would eagerly offer myriad thoughts about the chapter, but the first class weighed in tepidly and only one student raised her hand in the second.