together. (For more on segues, see [Chapter Five](Chapter Five), Lesson Structures.)

A final note to observe here: The same tools used to speed up pacing, lightly adapted, can slow things down as well. For example, you might say to your class, quietly and with a slow and reflective tempo: “In thirty seconds, your journal writing session will come to an end. At the beep, please close your journals and give me your eyes.” Then you might let the timer beep for a few seconds or leave a silent pause of a few seconds and add, “Good. Now we’re ready to discuss.” It’s still a clean finish with bright lines, but it establishes a slower pace and quieter tone. In fact, you could argue that *Brighten the Lines* is *most* useful for this kind of slower, more thoughtful task, where stepping in to be more directive is also more disruptive to the quiet, reflective mood of the room. Crisp transitions are often most useful at exactly the time you would least expect them to be, and where their use is least intuitive.

## TECHNIQUE 29: ALL HANDS

Raising your hand is an act that deserves some reflection, even if at first it seems straightforward.

For example, every time students raise their hands they mark the passage of an event worthy of action. They say, both to themselves and others, “There was a question there, and I want to answer it.” The question is distinguished from the previous one. It has novelty. Now it is a milepost. The intent to answer also distinguishes the moment. It’s a decision that the lesson is worth it: the rewards of speaking outweigh the risks. There is a shift in student’s self-perception: I wasn’t just sitting here passively; I was having ideas. I want to share them. The act of hand-raising can draw students further into a lesson and change them from the outside in.