question assessing the content correctly? How many could answer a more nuanced question? What mistake did those who got it wrong make? You can even reflect on whether your “gut” sense of how well the lesson went was correct, and why.

One caveat before sharing more specific guidance on *Exit Tickets*: one of the most common pitfalls of *Exit Tickets* is to equate performance with learning. You'll recall from the discussion of *Retrieval Practice* that once students have initially learned something, they quickly begin to forget it. As Harry Fletcher Wood puts it, “Student performance while being taught is a poor indicator of lasting learning.” *Exit Tickets* are designed to give you more immediate data on misconceptions students may be struggling with *as they are in the process of learning*, not to measure how well students have committed previously learned knowledge or skills to long-term memory. They provide you with an opportunity to intervene as close as possible to the point of misunderstanding, so students can spend their valuable time and cognitive space remembering correctly. But once you start to see mastery on *Exit Tickets* you have understanding, not learning. For that you'll need to make sure to return to concepts over time.

## Characteristics of Effective *Exit Tickets*

Here are some general characteristics of effective *Exit Tickets*:

**They're quick:** Two or three questions is a good rule of thumb. It's not a unit quiz. You want to get a good idea of how your kids did on the core part of your objective and, given how busy you are, be able to review the data in a few minutes.

**They're designed to yield data.** Think about asking each question (or part of a question) to focus on one specific part