start my planning with time to think carefully about what I want my students to understand and feel.” What students feel is critical to their sense of belonging is made up of many things. Part of it is the connection to the content and the teacher; part of it is being caught up in the flow of a lesson that moves briskly with what Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi calls “flow” and therefore moves them to another world—in Christine's case to Denmark in 1943—and fires their imaginations. The journey begins when one is made to feel included in something dynamic and engaging. An artfully crafted and executed lesson does that.

Before we define specific techniques for lesson preparation, let me return to the most basic question about preparation: How well do you know the content covered in your lesson? This might seem like a pointless question. No teacher except one thrown suddenly into emergency duty outside her subject would answer: “Oh, not very well, really.” But there is a huge range of what teachers mean when they say they know their content and it's worth asking if knowing more about the context and the facts really matters.

Research tells us that higher-order thinking relies on facts and is only possible when people are possessed of a strong body of knowledge about a given topic. Here's a demonstration of that.

Imagine that you woke up tomorrow morning and the sky was green rather than blue. In the box below, jot two possible explanations of what, from a scientific perspective, could conceivably have caused that to happen: