pacing creates a perception of rapid progress when they want students to feel as though they are “moving.” And they balance that with times when they'd prefer a pace that feels slower and more reflective.

The architecture of the human brain is full of paradoxes, many of them created by tens of thousands of years of evolutionary refinement for an environment not quite like the one we currently live in. We know that attention and staying on task yield long-term learning, for example. “The big rewards,” cognitively speaking, accrue from “sustained, focused effort,” notes McGill University cognitive psychologist Daniel J. Levitin. And yet our brains are also wired for “novelty bias,” and are “easily hijacked by something new.”¹ “Humans will work just as hard to obtain a novel experience as we will to get a meal or a mate,”² Levitin writes. Gratifying the “novelty-seeking portion of the brain” induces a “feeling of pleasure.”³ We are drawn to distraction because it was often critical to survival, Maryanne Wolf points out in *Reader, Come Home*. In the long arc of pre-history, attending to a new stimulus right away meant you were ready when something burst out of the thicket, teeth bared. We evolved accordingly. Novelty bias is the term for the special attention we give to what is new.

And novelty bias, many readers will know, is the design principle behind the smartphone's hold over all of us, but Sadie's teaching harnesses it in a beneficial and balanced way. Her students are always focused on the content, but her ability to achieve the right rate of novelty at the same time draws students in and engages them. She creates strategic novelty; new and ever-changing ways of engaging that keep the focus on the same material all the way through the lesson. When you peer behind the curtain, the first ten minutes are just a series of pressure, temperature,