**TECHNIQUE 45: BATCH PROCESS**

You can see some of the elements of strong *Habits of Discussion* and other elements from this book in the video *Jason Brewer: Batch Process*. Discussing changes in labor brought about by the early stages of industrialization in the United States, student are attentive and supportive of one another. Their prosocial listening behaviors and tracking (see *Habits of Attention*, [technique 48](#)) are strong. It feels like the kind of classroom where you can have a substantive conversation in a supportive environment.  
You'll probably also notice Jason's outstanding *Wait Time* ([technique 33](#)) before he calls on his first student, Mahaira. Her answer is wrong, but her classmates remain supportive and respectful and Jason manages his tell (see [technique 12](#), *Culture of Error*) beautifully. He merely says, “Agree or disagree? ... Nyesha ...” It's a textbook follow-on prompt, reminding Nyesha to ground her comment in Mahaira's.  

“I respectfully disagree with you, Mahaira,” Nyesha begins, proceeding to point out how the rise of replaceable parts required less skill from laborers, allowing factory owners to replace them as they wished. She speaks directly to Mahaira and refers back to her classmate’s answer gracefully.  

Jason then calls on a third student, “Marty, what do you think?” reminding him to sustain focus on the present topic with a follow-on prompt that gives wide latitude and opens the opportunity for him to incorporate his classmate's comments into his own reflections.  

It's a short discussion but a productive one. Jason says almost nothing about the content of the conversation in the spaces between his three students’ comments except to call on the next speaker and gently remind them of discussion norms. He doesn't say, “That's right, would anyone like to