words of affirmation, “You're doing fine; I'd love to share your work,” always helps. It can also help to crouch down and put yourself on an eye level with the student.

It's up to you whether you want to give students the right to say no when you ask, but for most teachers, it's more of a courtesy than a real option. That said, if a student were to object, you might respond with, “Well, let's see how it goes. I really think it will be worthwhile,” or “OK, how about if I keep you anonymous?” or “Why don't I start, and if you get uncomfortable you can signal me to stop.”

## The Reveal

The way you “reveal” written work to the class frames the way students interpret it and sets the tone for the rest of the Show Call. One factor to consider is whether you want to name the student whose work you show. Naming a student can help you make Show Call feel like a reward, but anonymity can be effective as well, especially if it makes you and your students more comfortable being constructively and positively critical in the revision stage.

Another important part of the reveal is whether and how the work is read. You could have students read it silently, but often you or a student may want to read part of it aloud. Reading written work with expression, careful attention, and appreciation is one of the best and most sincere ways to show how much you value and appreciate it. It also unlocks much of the meaning and expression in the words.

A last factor in the reveal is whether you want to tell students what they should look for (“Let's look to see if Martina has used active, dynamic verbs. What do you