Research tells us that mental models are critical to effective decision making in almost every field of expertise but especially in fields where people are asked to make a great many decisions quickly while they are focused on multiple things.

In his research on teacher expertise, David Berliner<sup>3</sup> showed video of classrooms to novice and expert teachers. Novices struggled to make sense of what they saw. “They often reported contradictory observations and appeared confused about what they were observing,” Berliner writes. Like Iain, however, experts often appeared to be observing passively until something looked out of place. This triggered a reaction. “When anomalies occurred,” experts responded “effortlessly and fluidly,” in part because they were quickly able to discern what was an anomaly. They didn’t overreact to what was normal, but they noticed potential problems quickly. They could distinguish students who were quieter than normal because they were thinking deeply from students who were quiet because they were bored. They were able to quickly separate signal from noise, in part because they were comparing what they saw to a mental model.

So where the rest of this book discusses specific techniques, this chapter describes core principles that can help teachers build a stronger mental model and thus choose among techniques and make better decisions while teaching, with “better” defined, most of all, as resulting in more learning and development among students. Deciding begins with accurate perception—a mental model aids in perception—but while perception derives from experience it develops more rapidly when it is informed by understanding of key principles.

This is something I did not include in earlier iterations of the book but have added to this edition to put even greater