And if students feel a hint of anxiety, OK, that comes with growing sometimes. Knowing that learning requires you to speak up at times and knowing from experience that you are able; learning to pay attention—at first because you know your teacher is probably going to call on you to keep you honest and later because, well, it has become a habit—those are the gifts of a classroom led with love. A smile during the *Cold Call* reminds both your students and yourself—because pulling Band-Aids slowly is hard—that it's a good thing.

In the section on *Cold Call* you can see Denarius Frazier and BreOnna Tindall do this. They are smiling reassuringly and warmly at their students as they *Cold Call* and you can feel the love in those moments. They will remind you, I hope, that it is *not* a contradiction to call accountability a form of love. It's not always what students would choose at first if they were given a choice, but they often prefer it in the end when teaching informed by lovingly accountability —like Denarius's and BreOnna's and Christine's and a score of other teachers in this book—results in not only success but in engagement, when students lose themselves in the lesson and feel learning as a state of flow.12 Then they are happier even if they never connect the happiness to the accountability that started it.

Even knowing that, though, some of them would *still* take the easier path. In such cases it is helpful to think of whom we serve in education. We serve the version of our students looking back on their schooling ten or fifteen years later, in light of its long-run effect on their lives. And we serve their parents, who are counting on us to push their children to create a future for themselves even in a world that surrounds them with distractions and messages that it's OK, cool even, not to do the things now that will create opportunity later. There is some tradition of young people not wanting to do what their parents say but coming, in the