The first step in MOP, then, is the rollout where you explain the default (and perhaps some of the other systems you'll use for participation) and why. It should be brief but compelling. Better to just describe the default and add short descriptions of the other formats later rather than talk it to death on the first day!

Ironically one of the best models I have of a teacher doing this is not a classroom teacher but a soccer coach, James Beeston. The soccer field is not the classroom, but I submit that there's a lot for every educator to learn from how James rolls out his expectations in the video *James Beeston: Switched on at All Times*. I've transcribed what he says below:

> The main thing from tonight's session ... It's going to require intensity from both a physical and a mental standpoint. I'm going to be asking you questions throughout, to check for understanding. Don't shout out the answer. That's a big, important thing because I want you to think about the answers that you're giving. If you know the answer and I go like that [raises hand], raise your hand. If you don't know the answer, that's OK. We'll work through it; we'll problem-solve together. Sometimes I might call on you guys even if your hand isn't raised, OK?, because the game requires you to be switched on at all times, so I am going to be calling on guys at times to make sure the focus is still there, all right, so we're locked in from the first minute to the last minute.

This “rollout” takes James about 45 seconds. He explains what he's going to do (“Sometimes I might call on you guys even if your hand isn't raised”) and why (“... the game requires you to be switched on at all times”). He tells them what to do when he initiates a routine (“... don't call out; I want you to think about the answers”). He sets his