it's no fun. And yet there are teachers who make great and exciting and inspiring lessons out of every topic that some other teacher considers a grind. Our job is to find a way to make what we teach engaging and never to assume that students can't appreciate what's not instantly familiar or does not egregiously pander to them.

## “They’ll Like It” Can Be Superficial

Just as our reasons for assuming students won't like something can be superficial, so can our reasons for assuming they will. Rudine Sims-Bishop observes that lesson content provides “views of worlds that may be real or imagined, familiar or strange.” She uses the analogy of mirrors and windows. In a mirror I see myself reflected. In a window I see a different world brought to life. All students deserve and respond to both. For example, as Sims-Bishop points out, “children from dominant social groups … too have suffered from the lack of availability about books about others. They need books that will help them understand the multicultural nature of this world.” And it's also true that students of color are just as likely to be moved and inspired by Shakespeare's words as any other students. “All texts belong to all students,” writes Alfred Tatum. Shakespeare—like Morrison, like Marquez, like Neruda, like Hurston, like Murakami—belongs to everyone.

But there is perhaps a tendency to presume that the mirror will be more engaging than the window, to assume that students will only want to see themselves in content, just as many may be inspired by books or lessons about people of different backgrounds from their own. For some, interest and identity align to the terms by which we see them (“I am Latina”). To others it is less visible (“I am a scientist”). A just school is a school in which every child gains the fullest opportunity to pursue their dreams. We have to stay open