using the car again.” A loving adult says this even if it results in temporary resentment.

8. To some it implies that teachers should encourage students to participate actively in social protest, for example. To some it implies that issues of social justice should be a major focus of the books students read and the topics they study. To others it is more important that students prepare themselves for professional success by more traditional means such as reading Shakespeare and studying cell structure.

9. Brandi Chin of Denver School of Science and Technology. You should see her school. (Actually, you can see it, when you watch video of ace teacher BreOnna Tindall later in this book.)

10. “Design Bias Is Harmful, and in Some Cases May Be Lethal,” Working in the Dark, *The Economist*, April 10, 2021.

11. I am reminded of a quote from Adeyemi Stembridge: “In any given school with any particular student, race may mean everything or nothing at all. We must make ourselves available for the discomfort inherently accompanying the topic of race and we must also be prepared to dismiss everything we know about race to allow students to show us who they are as unique individuals with agency and their own catalogue of concepts, contexts and lived experiences.” A responsive educator must always see and respond to the student he or she serves. Even when they do not share the interests of their teachers it is those interests we must serve.

12. I discuss the idea of “flow” in learning in the introduction to Chapter Six, “Pacing,” but *Cold Call* can