reading Maggie's class is doing—perhaps because teachers mistakenly think it's not beneficial for older students and perhaps because some teachers think they won't like it or won't do it. I hope the pleasure Maggie's students take in their reading gives teachers license and encouragement to read aloud with older students!

Now that you've got the idea, here are a few more key elements of the technique.

## Use Bridging to Maintain Continuity

Using *FASE Reading* combines two types of reading—student oral reading and teacher oral reading. As the teacher, you are naturally the best reader in the room. In reading aloud, you model the sorts of expressive reading you want from students—joyful, scholarly, what have you. You may choose to step in yourself and read especially important or tricky passages—your reading of them can bring the nuance of the text to life and help expedite comprehension. You can also use segments to resuscitate momentum after a particularly slow or struggling reader by stepping in for a few sentences, keeping the thread of the narrative alive and engaging for other students.

In bridging, a teacher takes a turn in the *FASE Reading* rotation, reading a short segment of text—a bridge—between student readers. In a typical sequence of bridging, a teacher might ask Trayvon to read for a few sentences, then Martina and then Hilary, and then read for a stretch herself. She might have planned in advance a part she thought she should read, or she might read to model expressive reading and bring the story to life a bit. She might read because Hilary really struggled, and the teacher didn't want the slow pace to cause other readers to disengage. She might step in more or less frequently.