name and seems upbeat about the class, and even though students are very attentive, also pauses the process of entry ever so briefly because he “thought he heard something.” Afterwards you can see students productively engage in their entry routine. He’s signaled expectations and elevated the importance of the space, and students react accordingly.

Tamesha McGuire shows a slightly different setting (Tamesha McGuire: Tuck Your Chair). She’s already in the room chatting amiably and lovingly with her boys and getting ready for her lesson when the girls, who’ve been elsewhere, enter. She claps twice and shifts her tone to show that class has started now, and her girls know instantly that they’ve entered a space of elevated importance. She’s actually not at the door, but it’s a Threshold, nonetheless.

The themes thus far include greeting your students by standing in the physical threshold of the classroom when possible—astride the door, taking the opportunity to remind students where they are (they are with you now, and no matter what the expectations elsewhere, you will always expect their best), how you feel toward them (caring, warm, but also with a hint that strictness can emerge as needed), and what you will expect of them (excellence, scholarship, and effort). During this routine, each student who enters greets you, shakes your hand, looks you in the eye, and offers a civil and cordial greeting, and vice versa. It’s a ritual of courtesy and caring.

You can use the greeting to engage students briefly and build rapport: “Loved your homework, David”; “Nice game last night, Shayna”; “Looking for great things from you today, Mr. Williams!”; “Your hair looks great, Shanice!” You won’t have time to say something like this to every student, but you can pick a few each day, over time connecting with