And seeking fun as a purpose rather than joy in learning can lead us astray and so deserves caution. Let me explain both of those ideas.

In distinguishing joy from fun, one teacher wrote me to emphasize the feeling of joy brought about by “the feeling of success after hard work” and the “celebration of success, both individual and collective,” not to mention “a bit of awe and wonder—experiencing something new and amazing.”⁵

Two powerful sources of joy that I have discussed elsewhere in this book are belonging and flow. Belonging is an intense feeling of membership in group. Inclusion in groups was maybe the single most important factor in our evolutionary success as a species. Those who were able to join with, collaborate in, and maintain membership with groups survived. Those that weren't, didn't. We evolved to be intensely sensitive to the status of our own membership. “Belonging feels like it happens from the inside out, but in fact it happens from the outside in,” writes Daniel Coyle in *The Culture Code*. But, he adds, people don't just need to hear once that they are included; they need to receive signals over and over, to be happy. Belonging, according to Coyle, is “a flame that needs to be continually fed by signals of safe connection.”

We often feel the greatest joy when we feel belonging. This perhaps is why singing, in particular choral singing, is part of practically every culture on earth and specifically a feature of worship in those cultures. When we sing together we affirm that we all know the words, literally and metaphorically, and show our ability to coordinate. We subsume our own yearnings in the group. Done even briefly this can have a profound effect on us, which is especially worth remembering in the midst of the most individualistic society in the world. The wholeness and joy of belonging