**Aidan Thomas Sticks with It**

You can see another example of *No Opt Out* in the video *Aidan Thomas: Y Intercept*. The clip starts with Aidan calling on Jahiem to plot a point on the graph of a line. He's asking for the y-intercept, in other words the point (0, X). It looks as if Aidan thinks this question will yield a quick and easy right answer, but Jahiem answers that it's the origin. “No,” Aidan chimes in. “That’s the trick. Not anymore.” His language is masterful here in normalizing the error and making Jahiem feel supported. Jahiem learns that what he thought was the answer (the same answer to a recent problem) was in fact “a trick.” This suggests that a common and natural mistake has been made.

He refers the question to Shawn, who answers that the y value is -1 and Aidan quickly makes his return: “Yeah, why is it -1, Jahiem?” The return shows faith in Jahiem. By asking him to explain Shawn's answer, he's arguably giving him the harder question. My reading of it is that Aidan thinks he'll get it right and have a chance to shine.

Unexpectedly, Jahiem struggles a bit, but with a bit of prompting, fixes his mistake. Aidan's response—“Nice self-correction,” he says, in a steady constant tone—is another bit of culture building. It reinforces the idea that making a mistake and catching it is normal and natural and lets Aidan give Jahiem credit for doing something well: spotting and fixing a mistake. Note that he doesn't overdo the positive reinforcement.

But the data also tells him Jahiem is confused, so eight minutes later, he *Cold Calls* to ask a question that again causes Jahiem to find the y-intercept. “What's the point