Here are some of the key elements that make it powerful.  
Here are words to describe those things.

Next Nina's kids practiced, a lot, before they tried to produce a final drawing. “The first day, we all draw together. We start with a house. We go step by step and break the house apart into shapes and angles and lines and what each line is doing. For example, to make the house look as if it's receding in space, the front edge would be longer and then gradually narrows toward the back. So I draw it and we copy it together. After they've done that, it starts to make sense. Then I give them half-complete houses that they have to complete. It becomes more independent. Toward the end they draw a full house. Then we start adding horizon lines and landscape details.” By the end of the first day Nina's students have done multiple sketches and drawings of the houses that they may put in their final project.

On day two they practiced the elements of landscape, especially the trees, in the same way. And on subsequent days they got more practice. “On day two for the *Do Now* we start with what we did previously. I had a half-drawn house for them to complete. On day three I gave them a house and they had to add the landscape with stylized trees,” Nina said.

After a few days of practicing sketching the elements, students did a final draft. “I tell them it's like a test. They have to show that they understand the points that we've hit. There are composition requirements: one house; at least four stylized trees, all of the tress with cast shadows, all of them pointing in the correct direction, aligned with the sun; a mysterious element that suggests missing people. Then they could think about color. They draw a first draft with crayons and colored pencils. They use that to