succeed—at first perhaps at small tasks and because you have insisted. Their success will grow from there.

In fact it's worth noting that while the culture you see in Denarius's classroom clearly supports his use of *No Opt Out* it is also in part a result of his use of the technique as well. His students eagerly engage because Denarius has insisted along the way, with care and humanity, that they do so. He has forestalled the easy out and his students, encouraged to take the riskier path, have mostly come to appreciate that and to trust him. In the end most students know the teacher who makes “the deal” is not the one who cares most about them.2

And while the progress a student makes in answering correctly via *No Opt Out* may seem trivial, research on motivation tells us that succeeding makes students want to try more. This is true even of small successes. So when students are stuck and they don't know, letting them see themselves answering correctly not only helps in the short run but in the long run.

And if your *No Opt Out* reduces the task to something very simple and a student persists in refusing to try, then you know clearly that you will have a time for limit setting, a different conversation, perhaps in private, along the lines of: “Charlie, you don't have to get the answers right in my class, but you will be expected to try. You're too capable not to.” There are, sadly, students for whom we will have to make it harder not to try than to try. I hope that most of your use of *No Opt Out* is not in such settings. I too wish that such cases were not the reality of our world, but they are and it's our responsibility to be prepared.

## Adding Rigor to *No Opt Out*

Over time my team and I have found that *No Opt Out* often works best when it is most rigorous—the more it rehearses