Routines like this harvest attention as much as they harvest time.

You could replace journals with notes or notebooks (as Sadie McCleary does) or with a packet. In fact, as I discuss in technique 4, *Double Plan*, one of the main benefits of having a packet—a single document where students can engage with all aspects of the lesson—is that it preserves continuity of student thought throughout the lesson. When the question is written down, students can check it so they don't lose sight of their focus as they write. Having the question prewritten also simplifies direction giving. One of the reasons directions are vague or unclear is that we are trying to frame the question as we assign it. Planning it in advance and writing it down protects against this.

Recall, for example, the packet from Reading Reconsidered Curriculum that I shared in technique 4, *Double Plan*. Since every student is working from the same page, and all have the same space in which to reflect before discussion, every brain maximizes its engagement with the academic task, rather than the logistics of how and where to complete it. When you give the cue, students dive into writing time with their thoughts intact. Simplicity has made the habit easy to activate, with benefits in focus and depth of thinking.

“Make the first action easy off the blocks,” Mccrea continues, and students will be more vested in the rest of the routine. The videos in the montage show the power of this. The goal when you begin building the routine is the simplest possible activation step: to get pencils moving. All of them. Right away. Later, you can layer in further expectations; for now you want to make it as simple as possible to succeed. It helps if the cue to begin is consistent—same words every time—and if it’s short and delivered in a crisp tone that “pops” so that students react quickly and decisively. Mccrea notes that a good cue should