explanation and consistent reinforcement that disappears as excellence becomes habitual—but never goes away entirely.

The process of installation starts with a “rollout,” a short speech in which you explain not only the *what* but the *why*. Students will be more invested if they understand your purpose and the value they put on such an understanding increases with every grade level. A rollout doesn't have to be a long description; you'll want to install a lot of routines so, for many, a sentence or a phrase will do. “We want to make sure to spend our time on more important things so we want to do it quickly.” Other, more significant routines might warrant a bit more explanation—a rollout speech of a few sentences. See, for example, soccer coach James Beeston explaining his means of participation to his athletes in practice. He'll *Cold Call*, he tells them, because the game will demand a lot from them so training should, too. It wouldn't be hard to make a classroom version of that. Just be careful to not overdo it. Don't apologize for wanting what's best for students, just help them understand why it's best. Be crisp and clear and honest. And smile, as Jo Facer says in *Simplicity Rules*. You're helping students do things that will cause them to thrive and be successful. That's a good thing.

1. Next you'll want to outline the procedure, probably walk students through it if it's complex—pack up your things, stand up, push in your chair, and get ready to line up at the door—and if students are younger, maybe even number the steps at first so you can practice more intentionally, saying “Let's make sure we've got step number 2 down” or using nonverbal cues, as Lauren Moyle does in the video *Lauren Moyle: This Is Your Challenge*. Numbering has the effect of chunking the procedure into discrete steps that students can master