Follow up the *Turn and Talk* by processing those initial thoughts—by having students share, improve, and prioritize the contents of their collective “pair” discussions. The expectation here is that they take what they talked about in their *Turn and Talk*, develop it by listening and comparing to what others took from the discussion, and track a wide array of thoughts on the topic, not just their own. This might sound like “Add two sentences to the bullets on page three” or “Now let’s look at the passage and circle all the evidence we found as a group. Make sure to take notes on your sheet so you’ve got all of our class’s ideas in your notes.”

## What Comes First?

Another way to build more Think Ratio into your *Turn and Talk* is to add an activity before it occurs that boosts ratio. Letting students write first is the most obvious. We can see the effects of this in BreOnna Tindall’s classroom. What students are discussing in pairs is not their spur-of-the-moment reaction but something they’ve been wrestling into words for several minutes. The Think Ratio is higher. As I discuss in the chapter on writing for ratio, writing first helps any discussion—even a pair conversation. It adds rigor and allows people to listen better.

Think time prior to a *Turn and Talk* can also help. It’s simple and fast and provides some of the benefit you get from allowing students to write first. That’s what Rue Ratray was doing when he posed his question to his students about *The Giver*—“We do need to break down the phrase ‘Rejecting the authority and wisdom of the governing body.’ What does *that* mean?” As you’ll recall he paused for four or five seconds before sending students to a *Turn and Talk*. Letting them reflect and generate initial