Adeyemi Stembridge points out that a passionate teacher can be the link between student and content, that the teacher's purpose is to model and foster a relationship with the content. So it was that Professor O'Neil somehow convinced me that it was urgent to stay up late reading William Wordsworth and permanently changed the way I think and read. There were classes I took that I knew I would love, but Professor O'Neil managed to inspire me with content that, with my comprehensive nineteen-year-old wisdom, I was sure was irrelevant to me. I suspect most people have had a similar experience, finding that the subject that seemed least interesting came to life in the hands of a gifted teacher.

There is no such thing as boring content, in other words, only content that is waiting for you to bring it to life, to find a way in. In the hands of a great teacher, the material students need to master is exciting, interesting, and inspiring, even if we sometimes doubt that we can make it so. If nothing else, there is always the pleasure of rising to a challenge.

I often hear this argument about book choice: let students choose what they like and they will love reading. That's often fine for independent reading but only by reading the same book can all of us discuss and understand our different perspectives on a given story. Someone is not going to get their choice. Perhaps no one will. And just maybe that's a good thing. It is folly to imagine that an eleven-year-old or a fourteen-year-old knows enough about the options available to know fully what they like. The whole point is to expand young people's horizons, not accept them, and reinscribe them in permanent marker. The more you prove to a fourteen-year-old that his or her knowledge of the world is as yet imperfect, the better. The same child thinks they do not like a certain cuisine because they have not tasted it cooked by an expert. The gift, in