digraph? “Last, he jumped.”  
*Student:* “Last.”  
*Teacher:* And what is the digraph?  
*Student:* “ST.”  

**Prompting**  
For the most part, the six types of *Stretch It* I've presented are directive: They guide students to think further *in a specific* way about something they've shown mastery of. Questions like “Can you give me a better word?” or “Can you tell me why?” and “How would the answer be different if the exponent was a zero?” shape the way students think about their original answer, and that's part of their strength. There are times, however, when it's also valuable to be nondirective. Prompting is a form of *Stretch It* that is nondirective, and the teacher's intervention is kept to an absolute minimum. Saying “Tell me more” or “Can you develop that?” doesn't tell a student how to think, merely to think further. Nondirective prompts allow students to decide what they think is most important to talk about and help students develop intellectual independence.

Prompting is often beneficial because it minimizes the disruption to a student's thinking. “Say more” comes faster and with less disruption to a student's train of thought than does a specific question about the author's purpose. It's easier for a student to immediately pick it up and develop it, so student thought remains center stage. As the buzzing of our electronic devices constantly proves, even a few seconds' distraction is enough to break the spell of deep thinking. The absolute simplicity of prompting is critical, and many of the ways we see champion teachers prompting are about minimizing interruption and shifting the ratio toward student thinking. Prompting is also helpful for those moments when you just need to know more about what a