attention of someone else in class. Cheryl, *please start the Turn and Talk* would tell her what to do, but it's vague. In other words, what do I mean by that? Cheryl might misunderstand. Though many readers will probably come up with even better examples, I've tried to “shrink the change” as Chip and Dan Heath describe it in *Switch*. I've made the first step easier to follow by making it clearer and smaller.

You can see how Sadie McCleary's specific and concrete directions to her chemistry class help every student to get ready simply and easily in the video *Sadie McCleary: Notes for Today*. Sadie has taught students how to head a paper to take notes on so when she says, “Today is lesson 14,” they understand that this is what they should write at the top of their notes under the phrase “Unit 2: Matter,” which they've already written at the top. Notice how specific she is even about what exactly they should write. In addition to ensuring they are ready to take notes, this signals her own careful preparation to students.

**Sequential Directions.** I mentioned earlier that effective directions should describe a sequence of concrete, specific actions. This allows you to pace them: If there are a series of steps and a student is inclined to distraction, you might parse them out more slowly or even one by one, checking for completion or at least progress on one before naming the next. I learned this as a parent when my children were small. There might be days when I could say: OK, towel off, get your jammies on, and brush those teeth successfully. There were also days when that many directions at once would end in disaster. If one of my kids was getting out of the tub and feeling giddy or distracted, I would pace the directions. I'd start: OK. Get your towel and dry off. When that was done, I'd say: Great. Now get into your jammies. When that was done, I'd say, Good, now over to the sink to brush your teeth. So you might pace your directions to