looking at him and affirming that they are listening and that his words matter.

It's worth noting also that teachers' own routines are a critical part of a successful classroom. **Chapter Two** is really a study of preparation procedures that hopefully become routine. How you circulate and observe for data are other examples of critical teacher-facing routines.

A word about the collective power of routines before we push on: Let's say everyone in your class had their own routine for getting their materials out and could complete the process in a few seconds. Would it be just as good as a shared routine where everyone does it the same way? Better even? Everyone accomplishing the same task in the same handful of seconds, each by doing it their own way sounds a lot more compelling. Why, this is to say, do routines have to be collective?

The first reason is that it makes them easy to support and manage. It's a long shot that everyone could find their own way to do that same thing—you'd be unlikely to get the outcome you wanted—but even if they did you'd be hard-pressed to help a student who struggled without steps to guide him through, even with the understanding that there was a right way to do it. You'll need to make sure your notebook is in your desk every morning when you unpack as opposed to asking, *Well where do you usually like to keep your notebook, in your backpack or in your desk?* As the epically disorganized child who was the one least likely to figure out the right way in middle school, I can also tell you that I was among the least likely to take anyone's guidance on how to be more productive. I didn't get it and so I didn't see the wisdom of, and was resistant to, what people were trying to tell me.

And of course group productivity requires coordination. You can move from chair to desk any way you want when