“I'm not really sure,” she said. “I think maybe our wings. They looked different from other people's.”

“Oh,” I said. What had she and her teammates tried to do with them? How were they different?

Silence.

If their wings had been better, in other words, it had been a lucky guess, which was fun and memorable but not all that instructive. They hadn't been testing an idea—“Hey, since we know X, let's see if …” It wasn't an application of knowledge, in other words.

I should be clear: I liked the rocket activity. It was fun and inspiring and typical of why my daughter loves science. But it would have taught her more to do it after she was no longer a rank novice. A few lessons on the principles of air resistance followed by some small experiments with different wing shapes would have helped. Or, to capitalize on the rockets as a “hook,”⁵ you might fire them twice—once to make some conjectures at the beginning, and then again after students know enough to cement their knowledge and ask: “What do you notice now that you didn't know when we first fired the rockets?”

If students have knowledge they can use it to describe, explain, and perceive why some rockets fly better than others:

*We had larger wings with more surface area or*

*Maybe it was the size of the nose cone that created less air resistance.*

The value of hands-on learning, in other words, correlates to how much students know when they engage in it. To use hands-on activities before you've shared knowledge overlooks the differences between how experts and novices learn.