with insufficient quality with success. The last thing students do in a sequence is to do an activity the right way. This helps engrain the perception and memory of what right looks like. It also helps build muscle memory. Students build the habit of doing it right, over and over. In fact one of the most interesting times to *Do It Again* is to encode success. As in: “That was perfect. Do it again just like that so you remember just what it feels like.” The “it” could be a math problem or playing a perfect eighth note. In fact, watch the video *John Burmeister: Trill*. In it, John, who is one of my favorite music teachers, is teaching cello to an individual student. Notice how many times she plays a trill in the course of learning it—eleven times, actually. Sometimes because it's not quite there; sometimes to add a layer of detail; sometimes to encode success—three more just like that.

- *It is reusable.* As John's cello video shows, *Do It Again* can be reused frequently so you always have a way to respond that's productive. You don't need to keep inventing new responses. You can be positive in administering the third iteration: “I still think we can do this even better. Let's give it one more shot!” Add a stopwatch to some routines, and the challenge of *Do It Again* (and do it better) only becomes more powerful.

However, it's important to execute the technique well. *Do It Again* should be positive whenever possible, with a keen focus on getting better and, in a great classroom, informed by a constant narrative of “good, better, best.” That is, “just doing it” gets replaced by doing it well. In fact, one colleague suggested that a better name for this technique is *Do It Better*, as better captures the idea that doing things over again to be as good as you can be is what school is