got it wrong or what she got wrong, or (b) we intend to go back but can't exactly imagine what that would look like, so mostly we are announcing our intent. *I am concerned that you struggled and know I should address it. I should not leave this as is.* If we don't have a technique for putting that intent into practice, we're likely to insert a bookmark that we never return to.

One of the benefits of *No Opt Out* is that it gives you a model—or a series of models—for how to go back to a student and quickly so you don't lose sight of the moment. This is not to say that you should use the tool reflexively—not every erroneous response needs to trigger a *No Opt Out*. A thousand good things exist in balance and compete for time and focus in a classroom. There's plenty of discretion to be had in when, how often, and what type, but the idea is powerful—returning to a student who hasn't gotten an answer correct and allowing, encouraging, sometimes prompting them to answer again ensures that students rehearse success rather being left dangling when they don't succeed. Done well it often goes a step further, affording a student who's struggled an opportunity to “get it right” in front of peers. It can also be an effective response to learned helplessness—the awkward moments when a student simply won't try. But we will come to all of that.

For now, let's watch a second example from one of Denarius's classes. In *Denarius Frazier: Cosine*, ninth-grade students are solving algebraic equations during guided practice. “Two cosine theta equals the square root of 2,” Denarius says, explaining the next step to students.

“Wrap this problem up … Shayna,” Denarius says. He's going back and forth between modeling steps himself and allowing students to solve parts of the problem, using what Barak Rosenshine would define as guided student practice