A last critical note on managing working memory: Sweller's *guidance fading effect* argues that experts and novices learn differently. Problem-solving environments where learners are tasked with inferring solutions rather than being provided with guided instruction work well for experts because they perceive these environments accurately and can quickly connect what they see to their vast background knowledge. For novice learners this does not occur. They are likely to perceive incorrectly or attend to low-value phenomena or use up their scarce working memory searching for the right information. With little knowledge on the topic in their long-term memory, they make far fewer connections. For novices, carefully guided instruction is far more effective. However, too few educators are aware of this distinction. They tend to presume what works for experts is therefore best for everybody. If it's how elite mathematicians learn, well then, let's give it to everyone. But in fact the guidance fading effect tells us that this is a mistake. “Students should initially be given lots of explicit guidance to reduce their working memory load, which assists in transferring knowledge to LTM,” Sweller writes. “Once students are more knowledgeable, that guidance is unnecessary and interferes with further development of expertise and should be faded out and replaced by problem solving.” Students in a K-12 setting are usually novices, although this definition is fluid. You can be an expert on *Macbeth* but a novice as soon as you start reading *Hamlet*. Or vice versa. Technique 21, *Take the Steps*, in particular discusses several issues raised by the interactions of working and long-term memory—“the curse of expertise” and the necessity of parsing out new information in steps with practice interspersed to address the capacity issues of working memory—but it will play a role throughout the book. You'll want to use retrieval practice frequently to install knowledge in long-term memory and use *Cold Call* to