now let's just assume it's going to be the independent variable."

Despite his hint, another student raised her hand and began brainstorming “what ifs,” wondering aloud how time might become a dependent variable. It was great that she was asking herself this question, and although many teachers might have encouraged it, her comment was less useful to others in the room. The teacher was trying to help the class come to a collective understanding of rate of change at a conceptual level, not to digress into an area he'd just indicated was not worth the time. His response was brilliant: “You're thinking outside the box. But I want us to focus on thinking inside the box right now, on really understanding rate of change, what it is and how it works. So let's stay there right now.” Then he smiled genuinely and sincerely and they went back to talking about rate of change.

Although some teachers might be reluctant to circumscribe discussion in this way, his doing so was immensely productive. Essentially he said, “Here's what we're doing as a group right now. That's something you should pay attention to when you speak up—what the group is trying to do and why.” Part of a teacher's responsibility is to teach students when and how to participate productively in a discussion.

In short, you *manage the meta* when, through feedback and modeling, you guide students in the dynamics of building conversation, specifically how to make the kinds of comments that are most productive in a given setting. Rather than assuming they know how to make a discussion valuable, you invest in teaching them as they struggle forward. Perhaps there are times when you want *more* outside the box. If that's the case, you might use meta comments like, “I want to hear some people who are willing