strict when needed. Again, if you can build an environment where students are on task, work hard, and treat you and all of their peers with respect and appreciation, it's much easier to be positive, warm, and encouraging.

Let me try to frame this distinction with vocabulary. There are *supplementary relationships*—connections with certain students about their lives outside the classroom—and *core relationships*—positive, mutually respectful relationships in the classroom that help to ensure students' learning and growth with warmth and humanity. I am not dismissing *supplementary relationships*. Many teachers have played profound roles in students' lives; they can be valuable to young people and gratifying to teachers. I hope you will experience a few in your life. But it is a trap to presume that *supplementary relationships* are a requirement of success, when it is *core relationships* that do the work. Seeking the former too ardently can detract from the latter.

So what is a core relationship like? It is one in which students feel, as my colleague Dan Cotton frames it, *safe*, successful, and known. That is, their teacher sees them as an individual, has the competence to ensure that they will learn, and provides an environment where they need not worry.

*Safe* is perhaps easy to overlook when we think about relationships. It means students must not only feel like they won't be bullied or mocked but that they will be respected and appreciated. Students must be able to take intellectual risks without fearing chastisement or judgment—from you or from their peers. Their relationship is heavily influenced by their sense of belonging within the class. If you smile after a student answers and show appreciation for her thinking but allow her, within the space under your authority, to be snickered at or the subject of eye-rolling, or if the moments when she reveals her intellect are met with