randomly out of a bag or the details of how many lawns Tyson mowed when.

As they progress toward adulthood, advanced study, and professional careers, students must be able to read complex texts specific to each discipline independently, even when those texts are challenging. To be a lawyer, a scientist, or an engineer is to be prepared for texts not necessarily designed to engage the reader or yield their meaning easily. If students cannot sit down and successfully make thorough sense of such texts on their own, their horizons will be constrained.

Maryanne Wolf points out in *Reader Come Home* that independent reading is also critical to building the capacity to sustain attention and concentration.[13] Learning to read deeply and well “rewires the brain,” she says, creating “sophisticated neural circuits” capable of reflection, concentration, and empathy. A fractured half-attentive society shouting at one another, in other words, is one outcome of a culture that does not read much.

And young people increasingly do not read. A 2020 study by the Literacy Trust in England found the lowest rates of student independent reading so far recorded.[14] When students do read, they typically read in states of distraction: on the couch with a smart phone buzzing away on their stomach, say.[15] To read and half-attend or vaguely understand is an increasingly normal cognitive state. Being distracted trips no internal alarms.

Providing periods of sustained, focused independent reading, especially with challenging texts, is among the most valuable things teachers can do in school, in every subject, and at every grade level. For many students, school is increasingly the only place this activity is likely to happen—there are few other places safe from the reach of technological distraction.[16]