scientific manner. But this correct answer has opened the door to a new challenge and Michael decides to *Stretch It*.

“OK, so what?” he responds.

The student pauses briefly, suddenly realizing he will now have to explain what's happening at a more substantive level. He's unsure at first but as he starts to articulate what's happening at a molecular level, he starts to gain confidence.

“The hotter the molecules get, the faster they move around in the beaker so if you put …”

Michael steps in briefly here:

“Which molecules?” he asks.

“The water molecules,” his student answers, but the challenge continues:

“Can you see any molecules?” Michael asks.

“No, but the dye movement shows how they're moving around,” the student pushes on.

Now Michael turns unprompted to another student—the *Cold Call* reminding everyone of the importance of listening to peers—and asks, “What's he talking about, Melanie?” subtly giving the first student credit for knowing something scientific after holding up under a challenging bout of inquiry.

You can see Melanie composing herself before she answers. It's going to be a challenge to put all of this into scientific terms but after steadying herself, she goes for it.

“He's talking about that, when you put another liquid substance in the water, that's … the atoms are moving faster, so in this case when it's hotter, the atoms are moving faster than the ones that are in the cold water.” Again we see the idea of elaboration at play here, retrieving an idea