# Chapter 3
## Check for Understanding

The great basketball coach John Wooden—a former English teacher before he won ten NCAA championships in twelve years at UCLA—defined teaching as knowing the difference between “I taught it” and “they learned it.” Part of what’s so profound about this perfect expression of the core challenge of teaching—in any setting—is its calm presumption that errors will emerge. It is not whether, but when. Every teacher seeks to present material clearly and memorably so that their students grasp meaning and importance. You want the initial presentation to be as good as it can be, but mopping up afterwards is inevitable. No matter how well you explain or demonstrate the material, gaps in understanding will emerge. It’s what you do next, how you respond to errors, that matters most. Will you see misunderstandings? Will you ignore them? Can you fix them? Will you blame students and express your frustration? There will be a gap between what you taught and what they understood. Regardless of why it will be your job to fix it.

With that in mind I can safely say that one of the most useful teaching videos you’re likely to see is *Denarius Frazier: Remainder*. It’s a thing of quiet beauty and I’ll discuss it extensively in this chapter. But for now here’s a brief overview and some highlights.

The video starts with students hard at work on a pair of problems. Denarius wants to use the independent work to gauge how his students are doing, so he begins to go from student to student to observe their work. Quickly he assesses where each student is and provides useful and