take action. Leanne Riordan of Baltimore suggests looking at the *Exit Tickets* as soon as you can, right after the lesson if possible, and sorting them into three piles—Yes, Some, and No—based on the responses. After looking for reasons that students missed a concept entirely or grasped it partially, make quick notes right on the *Exit Ticket*. You can then use these piles to differentiate small groups the next day or to create a *Do Now* for the whole class if needed.

As an added tip, keep the No pile on the top as a reminder to check in with those students more frequently the next day. Alternately, tracking the number of students who get a certain score and adding notes to sum up misconceptions can help you stay accountable for grading nightly and give you a glimpse of how the lesson went.

Hand in hand with reviewing results quickly is creating a format that makes it super easy to do. For example, Janice Smith, from Durham, North Carolina, uses sticky notes, having students write their name on the front and their answer on the back. On the way out of the classroom, students stick the notes to the door, allowing Janice to quickly flip through them between classes and easily enter data in a spreadsheet later in the day. Regardless of whether you use handouts or even just have students write their answers on something as simple as a sticky note, ensuring consistent placement (a variety of *Standardize the Format*) makes reviewing answers far more efficient.

## Have a Clear Purpose

Another common theme surrounds the purpose of *Exit Tickets*. One teacher in the United Kingdom talked about the importance of having a “clear sense of why you are using *Exit Tickets*.” If *Exit Tickets* show poor understanding across the class, then reteach; if *Exit Tickets* show just a few students to be struggling, then that small