is to give them the opportunity to be successful at a task.” That’s an educator who is clear on his purpose and who understands what supports autonomy for young people.

To address these challenges, I’m going to propose what I think is a better acronym—with the caveat that I think each school or classroom should reflect individually on any acronym they choose. Are these the tools we think will build positive attention habits in our students? If students work hard and meet these expectations, will it improve their ability to learn in a positive way? The answer must be yes, or the expectations are not worth including. But if the answer is yes, you should not shrink from including them.

With all of that in mind, it’s clear that there’s information we can add to descriptions of attention habits to provide more consistent reminders to teachers and students about their purpose. Consider the “N” in SLANT, that is, nodding your head. This not only shows interest in another person’s ideas, it also causes you to engage actively in listening. Here is an updated list for *Habits of Attention*, with the acronym STAR, revised to emphasize purpose more clearly:

- **Sit up** to look interested and stay engaged.
- **Track the speaker** to show other people their ideas matter.
- **Appreciate your classmates' ideas** by nodding, smiling, and so on when they speak.
- **Rephrase the words of the person who spoke** before you so they know you were listening.

In this acronym you can see I’ve added details about purpose. Nodding is included in the “appreciate” step to emphasize the importance of appreciating your classmates. That said, you might replace the “Appreciate” A with an A called “Active listening” (to help you focus and show that