Let's start with *Denarius Frazier: Parts of a Circle*. It's the beginning of class and Denarius has planned some *Retrieval Practice* to encode key concepts in long-term memory before pushing on to new content. “Take a second to look at this diagram,” he says, “And get ready for some questions… .” As he does this, a warm and welcoming smile lights up his face. Though he hasn't asked a single question yet, several important things have already happened.

First, Denarius has indicated to his students that he is preparing to *Cold Call* (he uses the technique frequently, especially at the beginning of class, and his statement “I'm going to ask you some questions” cues them to expect it here).

With the *Cold Call* coming, all students know they might be responsible for answering, so their attention and focus increase. This is so universally important it's easy to overlook: We can only learn what we attend to. Students are far more likely to think attentively about each question and answer it in their head because they may be asked to answer out loud. Denarius's questions are likely to elicit maximum thinking for all students and verbal answers from some of them.

Denarius's smile is also important. It says *I care about you* or *I want you to be successful* or *This is a good thing*. There's a loving accountability for students to stay focused on the math. This is what adults who care about young people do.

Denarius's first question is, “Give me an example of a radius … [pause] … Ricardo,” and everyone in the room glances at the diagram and searches for an example of a radius during that pause.

If he had said, “Who can give me an example of a radius?” and taken hands, some students would have known they