information, visit [www.teachlikeachampion.com/yourlibrary](www.teachlikeachampion.com/yourlibrary).

4. I am indebted to Mark Chatley of Maidstone, England, who pointed out this distinction in a tweet when I asked for guidance from educators recently.

5. These are Mark’s words. I am grateful for them.

6. “Leane Elizabeth” from Leicester, England, shared this in a tweet. The best part was that she had to explain the reference to me in a subsequent note *because it was an* inside joke.

7. This requires a note but the note requires a warning: I am going to tell you a story about long ago. It involves an approach to teaching that *I am not advocating and not advising you consider using*. Mr. Gilhool memorably opined, while making a movement as if balancing two sides of a scale: “Goethe, Herder, Hegel: I’d trade ’em all for a six-pack and a tank of gas,” by which he meant to argue the point of view that philosophers were of small practical value to most of society. If he mentioned some great thinker who might be high-minded and out of touch with society he would make the weighing motion and we would think about his hilarious words trading philosophers for something practical and be reminded of the pragmatist’s argument in a way we found hilarious. Again, I hope it is clear that you should *not* say this to students now. When Mr. G said this in the 1980s, people said and thought different things. We were seniors in high school and the drinking age was 18. Nonetheless, before you scorn Mr. Gilhool, let it be known that I would never have heard of Herder were it not for Mr. Gilhool and I read Goethe for the first time in part because I wanted to see what Gilhool was talking about, just as I