blink of both eyes. I would use it, without realizing it, in my English classes when a student offered an interpretation I thought was flimsy. I know this was my tell because one day after a student comment, I said, “Hmmm. Interesting.” At that point, a student named Danielle said quite clearly from the back of the classroom, “Uh oh. Try again!” She knew what “interesting” meant: “Well, that was disappointing.” Like most teachers, I was saying a lot more than I thought I was. My message really was, “You probably should have kept that thought to yourself,” and the student who'd spoken and all my students knew that. So much for making it safe to be wrong.

Compare that to Emily Badillo's response to student errors in the video *Emily Badillo: Culture of Error*. Her facial expression does not change whether students are right or wrong. She's the same steady, emotionally constant self. It helps that she withholds the answer. There's no giveaway at all.

We all have tells—several, probably—and because they are unintentional, we may send them over and over, communicating a message to students that undercuts what we might intend to say. One of my most capable colleagues describes a different tell. When students gave an answer in her class, she would write it on the board if it were correct, but wouldn't bother to write it if it were wrong. Sometimes she would call on a student and turn to the board, marker poised as if to write, only to turn back to the class upon hearing the answer, and recap the marker: **Click**. Message received.

Students figure out our tells surprisingly quickly, so it's important to seek them out in our own teaching and manage them. Of course, we'll never be perfect. Of course, it's fine to say, “Interesting” or even to explicitly say, “I think we can do better” or “No, I'm sorry, that's not