clearly defined and shared set of ideas in order to sustain their work. They need a shared vocabulary thorough enough to allow a comprehensive analysis of the wide range of often complex events that happen in a classroom. I believe that names matter and are worth using. Ideally, they will allow you to talk about your own teaching and that of your peers in efficient, specific language.

But I want to be clear. Despite the names, what appears here is neither mine, especially, nor a theory. It is a set of field notes from observations of the work of others, some of whom you will meet in this book, and many others whom you will not. I wish to thank them all for the diligence and skill that informed and inspired this work.

**SPECIFIC, CONCRETE, ACTIONABLE TECHNIQUES**

When I was a young teacher, I'd go to trainings and leave with lofty words ringing in my ears. They touched on everything that had made me want to teach. “Have high expectations for your students.” “Expect the most from students every day.” “Teach kids, not content.” I'd be inspired, ready to improve—until I got to school the next day. I'd find myself asking, “Well, how do I do that? What's the action I should take at 8:25 a.m. to demonstrate those raised expectations?”

What ultimately helped me improve my teaching was when a peer told me something very concrete like, “When you want them to follow your directions, stand still. If you're walking around passing out papers, it looks like the directions are no more important than all of the other things you're doing. Show that your directions matter. Stand still.” Over time, it was this sort of concrete, specific, actionable advice, far more than reminders that I must