# Chapter 6
## Pacing

I recently observed Sadie McCleary's Chemistry lesson at West Guilford High School in Greensboro, North Carolina. (You can see footage of Sadie's lesson in the video *Sadie McCleary: Keystone*.) Her topic was particle motion, pressure, and the compound gas law and the lesson was bursting with focused, productive energy. Five, ten, fifteen, twenty minutes raced by as Sadie engaged the whole room in rigorous, thoughtful work that in another classroom might have felt like a slog.

As a timer went off signifying the end of the *Do Now*, students finished writing and Sadie began a quick review, via *Cold Call*, reminding students that they should know relationships between volume, pressure, and temperature by heart. Students who were called on were ready right on cue and those not called on checked and corrected their answers. Her language was clear and precise: “You should have gotten 120 liters. Give me a thumbs-up if you’ve got that. Great.”

She transitioned seamlessly into a *Turn and Talk*, asking students to explain what happened to the pressure of a gas as temperature increased in a fixed container. After ending the *Turn and Talk* warmly and crisply (“Pause where you are”) she *Cold Called* Sterling, whose response was clear, concise, and accurate. “Beautiful,” said Sadie. “That was excellently said.”

Next, she gave students a new problem to consider: How would temperature and volume change when pressure increased in an elastic container? “Tell your partner. Go!”