doom loop of narration that can overwhelm so many well-intended, early-career teachers.

# Differentiate Acknowledgment from Praise

Acknowledgment is what you often use when a student meets your expectations. Praise is what you use when a student exceeds expectations. An acknowledgment merely describes a productive behavior or perhaps thanks a student for doing it, without adding a value judgment and with a modulated tone. Praise adds judgment words like “great” or “fantastic” or the kind of enthusiastic tone that implies that such words might apply. “Thanks for that comment, Marcus” is an acknowledgment; “Fantastic insight, Marcus” is praise. “Marcus is ready” is acknowledgment; “Great job, Marcus” is praise.

Distinguishing the two is important, as reversing some of the examples will demonstrate. If I tell Marcus it's fantastic that he's ready for class, I suggest that this is more than I expect from my students. Ironically, in praising this behavior I tell my students that my standards are pretty low and that perhaps I am a bit surprised that Marcus met my expectations. Perhaps they aren't expectations after all. Either way, praising students for merely meeting expectations may reduce the degree to which they do so over the long run. It also makes your praise seem “cheap.” If that happens, it also means that when Marcus writes a powerful response to a piece of literature and you call it “fantastic,” you will be describing it in a manner on par with how you described coming to class on time, and this may perversely diminish the accomplishment in his eyes. In the long run, a teacher who continually praises what's expected risks trivializing both the praise and the things she really wishes to label “great,” eroding the ability to give meaningful verbal rewards and to identify behavior that is truly worthy of notice. In short, save your praise for