However, many teachers don't ask students to read in class because students don't do it productively or they—or their administrators—don't think of it as a form of teaching.

**Accountable Independent Reading (AIR)** is a set of tools to ensure that independent reading during class is successful and productive. It has three tenets. First, assign reading in smaller durations at first in order to make adaptive decisions based on how well students read an initial sample (or samples). Second, assess intentionally, ideally through observable tasks, to make decisions about how effectively or how much of a given text students can read on their own. Third, embed the reading within the arc of the instruction so it is not a separate activity but rather one where ideas apply and connect to the rest of the lesson.

Much of the rationale for this approach comes from the recognition that students' ability to read independently is not static—it depends on the text they are reading and varies given their own background knowledge and experience with different forms of syntax.17

Further, the goal is for students to read attentively and with understanding when they read as much as it is to increase the amount of their reading. The habit we want to build is of focused attentive reading.

You can see an example of this in the video *Nicholas Hermann: Forces*. Nick has added an article to his lesson plan for his fifth-grade Science students to read. Great idea. Scientific texts read differently from other writing. It's great practice for students to read within the discipline. The article describes the forces that affect the flight of a baseball. Nicholas is very clear that they're going to start with just four paragraphs. He wants to make sure they can spot the two forces (gravity and air resistance) acting on the ball. He's prepped the text in advance, so the segment