and facial expression. Many people assume that this is far simpler than it actually is, that if we look at Julissa we will see her, but seeing is in fact far from automatic. The first, often overlooked step in making better decisions is seeing better.

“We are aware of only a small portion of our visual world at any moment,” Christopher Chabris and Daniel Simons write in *The Invisible Gorilla*, their study of a topic teachers will know a little something about: inattentional blindness. That’s the technical term for every person on earth’s ability to look directly at something important and simply not see it: a car entering the intersection, a student tentatively raising her hand or, frankly, an eraser flying across the room. It happens all the time to people who work in complex perceptive environments. We want to think perception is objective and automatic. We don’t really believe that we fail to perceive. That’s the tricky part. Chabris and Simons write that it is “flatly incompatible with how we understand our own minds.”

So what do you do when perception is fallible but really matters—when it’s critical to note the student who is quietly edging toward frustration, for example, or when you’ve been working area problems for ten minutes and Daphne has not picked up her pencil yet? “There is one proven way to eliminate inattentional blindness—make the unexpected object or event less unexpected,” the authors conclude. In other words, the best way to see well is to know what should occur. Your mental model guides what you look for. The more we understand, the more we see. And when we don’t understand what we’re seeing this too influences our looking. A recent study found that skilled radiologists were more accurate in making correct diagnoses from X-rays than novices (that is, they were more likely to perceive them correctly), but the errors of less skilled radiologists were not randomly distributed.⁴ They