Na’Jee’s video, can ride the cycle of success-motivating-success for the duration of the lesson.

One additional aspect of *Cold Call* that leads to positivity can occasionally elude teachers when they aren't prepared: both the question and the ideal answer should be clear. Every teacher has had the experience of asking a student a question that, in retrospect, was confusing or unclear. It's doubly important to avoid this kind of question when *Cold Calling*, when it is essential that students are maximally set up for success. Many teachers address this challenge by planning their exact questions and answers word for word as part of their lesson-planning process.

One final bit of guidance in making sure *Cold Call* is a positive experience is to do a bit of culture building around how to respond when students have been *Cold Called* and aren't sure of the answer. Consider the power of explaining to students in advance what to do if (1) they don't know the answer (“Say, ‘I’m not sure’ and then add ‘but’ and then give me your best guess,” or “Restate the question and tell me why or how you're confused”); or (2) their classmate can't answer (“Be supportive. Smile warmly and keep your eyes on them. Don't raise your hand until they're done trying, and remember that all of us will be there at some point.”)

## Principle 2: Make *Cold Call* Predictable

In some ways *Cold Call* works backwards: it's designed to influence what precedes it, to cause everyone to think harder by creating an expectation that anyone might end up being asked to answer just afterwards. This means that the more likely it is that students see a *Cold Call* coming, the more focused, active, and attentive they will be during the thinking that precedes it. Thus *Cold Calling* should be predictable. Using it regularly is one of the best ways to do