students into independent work. First: Hasan Clayton.  
“Four minutes, silent solo. Let's see what you remember. Eyes in,” he says. His calm, steady tone and presence indicate that this is a moment for thoughtful reflection. Even the pace with which he begins to move around the classroom signals that this activity is meant to be completed with sustained, quiet focus. In contrast, Tamesha McGuire's warm, crisp directions to her kindergarten class—“Ready ... set ... go to work!” (complete with a bright smile)—infuse the independent work with energy and excitement. As students begin working, her cheerful narration maintains the energy of the launch. Jamila Hammett's cue to her small group of third graders is more muted—a student reads the question and she says simply, “Go ahead, take one minute.” She remains silent as students' pencils begin to move to give students space to begin grappling with the challenging *Art of the Sentence* prompt. In each example, the teacher influences the pace and energy of the room through the tone and language of their in-cues; at the same time, all three cues are clear and specific enough to **Brighten the Lines** between activities and ensure that all students are prepared to begin at the same time.

## Clean Finish

Being able to end an activity reliably on cue is also a critical skill for several reasons—the most obvious being time management. How many meetings have you been in where the person running it was unable to say, “Okay, we're done with that; now we're moving on to this,” as it became increasingly obvious that the meeting would run over time or that other topics would be truncated? Time use in the classroom can be done a similar disservice when a teacher can't reliably end one activity to begin the next.