and a half minutes and then a group discussion for three minutes. The variation in allocations for different activities or different iterations of the same activity communicates your intentionality about time. You care about and are precise about time, and this makes others respect it as well. Having established such a track record, you're actually likely to get a pretty good response from folks if you do occasionally use “two minutes” and the like.

In the video *Emily Badillo: Go Right to Work*, which shows a recent fourth-grade lesson on *Number the Stars*, Emily Badillo launches a writing task with four minutes (not five!) of work time. After explaining that she'll be looking for example sentences to share with the class, Emily cues the group to begin by restating the time: “You've got four minutes. Go right to work.” She immediately sets a four-minute timer on the red stopwatch attached to the front board so that all students can keep an eye on their time as they're working. As she circulates, Emily keeps one eye on the clock so she can provide verbal time stamps for students as they go. “You've been working for one minute,” she says. “Looks like almost everyone is done with the first sentence. Keep up that speed.” This narration helps students check their own pace and mark the passage of time—How much have I accomplished in this first minute? Am I on track with the rest of the class?—but is warmly and positively delivered, emphasizing success and encouraging those who might not be finished yet. After another two minutes of work time, Emily addresses the room again —“You have one minute and thirty-six seconds left. Get as far as you can.” The precision here helps students see that she'll be taking the end of work time seriously (it's not an approximation or an estimate) but her encouragement to “get as far as you can” lessens the pressure, reassuring students that while the group will be stopping soon, each person's job is simply to make as much progress as possible