also talk about this era constantly in college; please pick your head up and stay with us.” Even in the best-case scenario—Roberta raising her head and getting back to work right away—my interaction took several seconds, and, during that time, there was no further discussion of the Great Depression. It’s not just that learning stopped; engagement stopped, and sharp minds are now looking for a substitute.

It could even be that now I’ll have other fires to fight. “Jane, there are no cell phones allowed in this class,” I say to my student who took one out during the hiatus. “Carlos, I need you paying attention.” Each time I stop to correct one student, I risk losing another. I may never catch up.

It’s going to be a struggle from here to get the momentum back. Attention residue, which I discuss in Chapter One, means that part of what students thought about while the task was interrupted will remain on their minds when the interruption is over. And if the stops are frequent, we’ll never reach the kind of uninterrupted flow state that characterizes instruction at its best.

And of course there are all the questions about how Roberta will feel to have everyone looking at her. Yes, she needs to be awake and engaged in class. But having everyone staring at her hardly helps her concentrate. And it may make her resent me or even refuse to sit up.

So how would an expert teacher handle this? Would they intervene with Roberta? Almost assuredly. She may not feel that way at the moment but ten years from now she will wish she had not slept through classes. And if asked, her parents would be unlikely to say, “Please let my child sleep through classes.”

The goal might be the same, then, but the *how* would be very different. The teacher would seek to make the