interesting are discussions with comments more like, “I agree that that evidence is important but I interpreted it differently,” or “The first part of your comment is insightful but I think you may have exaggerated the significance.”

Asking students to listen and focus on whether they agree or disagree can foment an unproductive situation: a discussion full of students with arms crossed saying, “Well, that's just what I think,” perhaps a little more loudly the second time around. Learning and growth aren't maximized when students are focused on proving that their original opinion was right and “winning” the discussion, rather than, say, listening for information that might cause them to change their original thought, to develop a more nuanced and flexible opinion that moderates and modulates their initial reaction in light of others’ perspectives. Surely we are exasperated when, in our lives outside of school, we come across people who want to win discussions instead of hear others out in the assumption that they might learn something. We should be careful about reinforcing that in our schools.

Next question, then: How can we socialize students to think of discussion as a tool to refine or revise their own thinking in light of the points made by others? One effective way is to ask them to write and then listen to the discussion with the understanding that the next step will be to revise their original opinion. That is, moving to RWDR or AWDR (read-write-discuss-revise or activity-write-discuss-revise) gives structure to the idea that during a discussion, what students should do is track ideas they will use to revise their opinion afterward. It makes a habit of it, in fact. The process ends with them changing their opinion. It expects them to.

This not only provides lots of practice revising—a skill I write about it in technique 42, Regular Revision, that is at