steer questions to Jabari, because he struggled on perimeter questions on the quiz but has been making great progress. I'll let him answer during class, so he feels the progress. Or my goal could be to make sure everyone speaks and is included and feels the “voice equity.” I might make a note to “call on Tyson or Mary” because they are quieter, or to “call on quieter kids,” because I don't know who will be quiet that day. In other words, my goals can be individual or categorical. Making a note to call on someone with an “almost there” answer is one of my favorite examples of a categorical preparation note. Seeing the note —“Show Call an almost there”—in the margin, I would then circulate around the room, glancing over students' shoulders as they worked and choosing a strong answer that was lacking a key detail (i.e. “almost there”), and starting the discussion there. “Naveen has some really provocative insights and I think we can also help her make her good work even better. Let's have a look... .”

When reviewing the lesson online, you can see that Christine has done this at the bottom of page 3 and again at the bottom of page 6. She's got a list of kids whom she might want to call on for this. You can see some cross-outs. The list is changing. She's got a list for her co-teacher Kait Smith, too, who's leading a pull-out group.

**Time Stamps:** How do good lessons go bad? Slowly, then all at once. Everything is going fine if a little slower then you anticipated and then you look up and realize that you are having the discussion you hoped you'd have but twenty-five minutes later in the lesson than you'd planned. Suddenly you are in trouble. There'll be no independent practice, no written reflection, no time to review for the quiz. This is why using Time Stamps is important. They push you to intentional allocation decisions about your dearest resource. How much time on the Stop and Jot before the discussion, how much time on the discussion,