limited to a single sentence must suddenly begin using a new and expanded version of the sentence to get it all in. Necessity is the mother of syntactical invention.

You can see this in a moment from the video of Jamila Hammet's lesson that we watched in the discussion of *Silent Solo*. Her students are reading Kate DiCamillo's *Because of Winn-Dixie*, a novel about the deep relationship between a girl and her dog. Students are asked to look at a picture of an adorable and loving dog, who reminds them of Winn-Dixie perhaps, and describe how they feel when they look at the dog. Without scarcity a student could write: “I love this dog. He's cute and I'd want to play with him. I'd want to throw him a ball and let him fetch. I'd like to see if he wants to tuck in beside me and watch a movie.”

What you might get, in other words, is what we do get so often. Relatively wooden, unimaginative writing using simple and receptive sentence construction.

But a student forced to put all their thoughts into a single sentence might write:

> I love this dog because he's so cute and I imagine us playing, me throwing him a ball to fetch or else the two of us tucked in on the couch watching a movie.

That's a sentence pushing outward on the student's limits. The student is expanding how much she can capture, and how well, in “a complete thought.” Notice all the syntactic tools that have been brought to bear—I'm honestly not sure what to call them all. Scarcity caused that—scarcity combined with students having a lot to say and ideally knowing a fair amount about a topic.

You should also expect errors to show up as students try to write more complex sentences, by the way. Of course they will. It's a good thing—they're at the edge of their mastery. Make sure to combine AOS and other developmental