fact all the same size. That the organelles are always moving and changing. And on and on.

At best, your students might vaguely understand a few of these things. More likely they'd know none of them. But you wouldn't think to mention them in your explanation of the diagram because what they don't understand is hidden from you. For all intents and purposes, you and your students are looking at different diagrams.³ What's obvious to an expert is hidden to a novice, even in terms of perception.

In fact I generated my list of what an expert understands about a cell diagram with the help of dozens of colleagues on Twitter.⁴ What was obvious to a biology teacher and not to students? I asked. Most people contributed one or two of these ideas. Nobody saw all of them, and there were more suggestions than I could keep track of.

Combine this with the Dunning-Kruger Effect, the tendency of unskilled individuals to overestimate how much they know, and you have “an unwitting conspiracy,” writes Greg Ashman. “The teacher thinks their students understand and the students think they understand, and they don't understand.”

There's no reliable “cure” for the curse of knowledge. Perceiving subtle hints of confusion in your students' countenances can suggest that maybe you've overlooked something, so prepare your lessons well and keep your working memory free to observe students. Experience also helps: You develop intuitions about students and their misunderstandings from years of hearing them say wonderful things like, “That can't be the mitochondria—it's not orange!” during a lab. But it will always plague us. Still, there are two things you can do in terms of teaching methods that make you more likely to instill successful