that it was like pizza. They veered from one obscure analogy to another. They were certainly outside the box. The teacher too made obscure connections. The text they were reading was like “that commercial on TV.” Then it was “like that song,” and he quoted some lyrics. He called these text-to-text connections, but they weren’t. Their effect was not to cast the text in a new and revealing light but to distract the class from any sustained reflection on it. Student comments mirrored his choices. They referred to something arcane or comprehensible only to them and he never helped them think about how useful their comments were to others. Perhaps his mental model was vague and he didn’t envision discussions as being characterized by comments that were topical and timely. I once had a professor who would occasionally respond to comments, “How does that relate to what we were just talking about?” His doing so helped us see very quickly that discussion was not just about us and our desire to talk about what thoughts were on our minds, but about the mutual goal of developing shared insight on a topic.

The power of framing expectations about discussion was evident in the math class many of the same students had been in earlier in the day. It was their first day studying rate of change, and their teacher had just observed that time was almost always an independent variable when it appeared in a rate-of-change problem. “It’s going to be your independent variable 99 percent of the time,” he said. He asked students if they had any questions. Several ensued in which students reflected on how certain rate-of-change problems would be represented on a line graph. Then a student asked for an example of a situation in which time could be the dependent variable, and the teacher said, “To think of an example, I’d have to come up with something pretty obscure. Maybe we’ll do that later, but for