constant distraction, digital overstimulation, and task switching. There is a place for digital devices in learning, certainly, but there is just as much a place for sustained time without them. Providing steady doses of screen- and distraction-free time characterized by sustained meditative reflection—pencil, paper, book—is the greatest gift we can give to young people.

In 1890 (when high-tech meant newfangled innovations like the tabulating machine), the psychologist William James noted in *The Principles of Psychology* something else about attention: that what we pay attention to shapes our cognition more broadly. “My experience is what I agree to attend to,” he wrote, anticipating a vast array of twenty-first-century research that suggests how profoundly what we pay attention to shapes us. Attention, in other words, is not just a sort of “muscle that allows us to keep looking” as my colleague Hannah Solomon put it in a conversation on this topic, but also “the lens through which we students look,” and this is also critical to consider.

So how might attending to attention play out in the classroom? Here are some initial thoughts. You will surely find more.

You'll want to build strong habits for focused sustained writing through *Silent Solo* and then extend the amount of time that students can engage in writing over time. You'll want to use *FASE Reading* to train students to focus on what they are reading without interruption for a period of time and to help them experience the pleasure of focus —“flow” as some people call it, the moment when you lose yourself in a task and the rest of the world—including its phones and screens—fades away. You'll want to help students learn to concentrate during teaching and discussions via *Habits of Attention* and *Habits of Discussion*. You'll want to put *Turn and Talk* on rails. And