challenges, such as “Use your new vocabulary” or “Try to think of several reasons,” from the outset.

5. For more on the curriculum check out the Teach Like a Champion website:  
https://teachlikeachampion.com/reading-reconsidered-curriculum/.

6. I like to use a slightly adapted version of Saddler's definition: “The ability to use a variety of syntactic structures to create a variety of sentences that clearly express an intended meaning.”

7. https://www.ollielovell.com/tot/092/#Some_insightful_thoughts_on_teaching_Grammar_via_DaisyChristo.

8. I have no idea what the technical terms are to describe most of the elements of syntax I was using in that fancy sentence above (nor am I suggesting that fancy equals good). “Vaguely appositive-like” is certainly not a technical term. But I can use most of those tools even if I don’t know what they’re called. I have at least fair-to-middling syntactic control.

9. Did you glance lovingly at your copy of her book, placed in a seat of honor on your bookshelf, as you read that? If not, it suggests you have not read it. You should.

10. To be fair, it's great about all aspects of writing. I'm just partial to her work on sentences.

11. A story from my childhood: In fifth grade I wrote a book report. My topic sentence said the book was interesting. “You cannot write a book report in which your topic sentence calls the book interesting,” my mom said. “What kind of interesting? Why?” Back in my room I spent twenty minutes asking myself, “Well, what was so