long-term memory popping up in the moment we learn about something else and announcing a previously not-obvious connection.⁵ But even beyond that, the “just Google it” theory doesn’t work because you’re unlikely to know there’s a connection between something you don’t know about and what you’re reading or learning about, so you’re unlikely to think to look it up.⁶ And even if you did, you’d have to hold it in your short-term memory once you looked it up, and this would leave you less working memory for creative leaps.

Bloom’s Taxonomy, at least when presented as a pyramid, is a typical point of confusion. Educators often presume that knowledge and facts being at the bottom of the pyramid means they’re the least important part. Many followers of Bloom on the other hand insist that he understood the profound importance of knowledge and meant to imply that the whole thing rested on a foundation of knowledge because it was so important. That’s relieving to hear but doesn’t change the fact that many (most?) educators don’t think about it that way. If you’ve got a pyramid, every teacher glances at it and wants to guide his or her students to the top: *We’re all in synthesis, all the time in this classroom.* Sadly, cognitive science tells us that this is wrong. It’s actually the lowly facts that work like fuel and get the whole cognitive motor humming.

## Building Ratio Through Questioning

Teachers love to ask questions. Rightly. Questions can cause students to think deeply about content, and what students think about is what they are likely to learn and remember.⁷ And of course questions can spark discussion and peer-to-peer learning.

But *can* and *do* are different things. We have all been inspired by profound questions but we have all also seen,