group. The importance of their contributions is reinforced at every turn and so the scholarly side of students is drawn out, even for the students who are at first hesitant to speak. The environment, the culture, changes them.

But notice in particular how, after the initial *Turn and Talk*, one student, Adriel, is called on to share his response. It's a *Cold Call*, by the way. Adriel hadn't raised his hand. But voice equity is important. In a good classroom, everyone's voice matters and BreOnna expresses that with her *Cold Call*. Is Adriel nervous? Perhaps. But in addition to BreOnna's sincere interest and gracious smile, his classmates track him to show his ideas matter to them. This draws him out. They snap occasionally as he speaks to encourage and appreciate his thinking. In the glow of their respect, he speaks earnestly and with depth. He would not do that if their eye contact and body language did not encourage him to; if they slouched and looked away out the window. No one would. Left on his own, he might have sat silently but here he is drawn out into the sunlight of his peers. Changing the social cues he sees changes his behavior. He is discovering that his ideas are worthy of appreciation from his peers. A classroom with strong *Habits of Attention* I noted earlier, is like a bright mirror. It reflects its students' talents, but it is changing them at the same time.

Adriel's relationship with BreOnna certainly influences his work in school, but not as much as the interactions with his peers do. Thus BreOnna has sought to shape and guide them so they are as beneficial as possible.

Notice also that BreOnna calls next on Renee. She's got plenty to say as well and we can see that she knows the culture of the classroom will embrace her cerebral reflections. But notice also how she builds off of Adriel. This happens in part because of the classroom's habits but