something like, “No hands for the next few minutes; I’m going to *Cold Call*,” can be especially helpful in making the *Cold Call* predictable. But since *Cold Calling* is something we can do just as easily when students are raising their hands, I think it’s best to most often allow hand-raising during *Cold Call*.

So … can “hands down” or popsicle sticks be useful and an occasional fun change of pace? Yes. But teachers often assume they achieve the same ends and value as *Cold Call*, and I just want to be clear on why I think they are different.

## Cold Call in Synergy

The videos I’ve chosen of Denarius and Na’Jee’s *Cold Calling* are unusual for a variety of reasons: first, because of the skill and proficiency they show. You’re watching masters at work, at least in my opinion, and that’s good to keep in mind if you’re just beginning to use the technique. Your *Cold Calling* may not look like theirs right away. Another thing that’s distinctive about these two videos is that they show Denarius and Na’Jee in the midst of sustained sequences of heavy reliance on *Cold Call*. This of course makes it easier to see and study how they do what they do. But it’s also a distortion. Much of their and other masters’ *Cold Calling* happens in combination with (and embedded within) other questioning and engagement techniques. In those instances the *Cold Call* itself occurs with less frequency but it is still essential because it works so well in synergy with other techniques. I write more about this synergy in technique 36, *Means of Participation*, and you can see this synergy in action in many of the Keystone videos.

In the video *Sadie McCleary: Keystone*, for example, Sadie begins reviewing answers as the *Do Now* ends. She *Cold Calls* Alissa, Alex, and N’Kaye, but then she sends students