part, to organize our memories so that knowledge is connected to other facts, insights, and observations. This is how initially isolated facts become something broader that we call knowledge. Remembering something requires successful storage and successful retrieval, however, and the speed and ease with which you can find it is the critical factor in your ability to use it so again organized memories with lots of connections among lots of information are also more likely to have more ways to recall the knowledge they contain successfully.

I also added the idea to my model that perception is complex because one of the things that working memory does most effectively—help us to perceive the outside world—is much more complex and fallible than we think. Broadly, if working memory is overloaded—students will both perceive and remember less. The solution is to have knowledge encoded in long-term memory. Once information is stored there it can be used with very little load of working memory.

Of course, if working memory is underloaded there are also poor outcomes—boredom and reduced learning, for starters, but also lack of attention. The mind finds other things to do. So it’s critical to attend to and manage the amount of new information young brains work with. We want them constantly engaged and interested but not overloaded with more than they can manage. The science behind this is known as “Cognitive Load Theory.” It’s among the most important things for educators to know about. Sweller, Kirschner, and Clark, who are its foremost researchers, define learning as a change in long-term memory and observe that “The aim of all instruction is to alter long-term memory. If nothing has changed in long-term memory, nothing has been learned.”⁶ That’s why forgetting is so important to think about. You’ll find this concept in several of the new techniques in this book.