over a bed of noise. As if we are anticipating it. And in that case the anticipated noise is usually not far behind.

The best tool of prevention, however, is to help students to build a habit of listening to and listening for information that comes quietly from the outset. We want students to consistently associate quiet voices with attentiveness.

Notice, for example, how Arielle Hoo does this in the register shift clip at the beginning of the chapter. “Great, and track up here in five, four …” she begins. Her voice is a bit louder than her normal speaking voice here. Not a shout, certainly, but projected enough to make sure everyone knows she's speaking and looks up. But notice also the way her voice drops, even over the brief length of the countdown. By the time she's at “one” she's speaking at a conversational volume. She uses the shortest possible spike in volume; it's momentary and by the time her phrase ends she has already returned to speaking volume. From there she gets even quieter. Her final direction, *Make sure books are closed*, is at a very low volume but by this time students are listening attentively. If a tiny bit of raised volume helps you draw eyes, it helps best when it is a tiny burst, a fraction of a second. Once that's happened its work is done and Arielle, for one, is always trying to move toward quiet. Her voice drop to a near-whisper is also an investment in the future. *She wants students to make a habit of listening to and for information delivered quietly.*

When you want students to listen and follow through on an important request, especially when emotions are running high, strive to exude *Quiet Presence*. If you have to raise your voice slightly at first to show you are speaking, modulate quickly to a lower volume. Drop your pitch and speak more quietly even as you progress through a single sentence. Speak slowly and calmly; again, slowing yourself even over the course of the sentence if necessary. This