tyranny—more or less invisible but still potent—exerts itself. TNTP's 2018 report, *The Opportunity Myth*, suggests how endemic this quiet tyranny is. Following nearly 4,000 students in five diverse school systems, TNTP found that even when they had completed the work they were given, even when they strove to give their best and set a goal of further study, students were routinely, overwhelmingly not on track to accomplish the things they aspired to. The work they did in school was not challenging or demanding enough. Even those who received high marks were not prepared. “Their lives,” the authors wrote, “are slipping further away each day, unbeknownst to them and their families—not because they can't master challenging material, but because they're rarely given a real chance to try. Students spent more than 500 hours per school year on assignments that weren't appropriate for their grade and with instruction that didn't ask enough of them—the equivalent of six months of wasted class time in each core subject.”

Social justice to me is classrooms that are *radically better*, classrooms that foster academic achievement and that prepare every student to accomplish their dreams. If a classroom does not operate as if the young people in it were capable of greatness, it will never be a just classroom. But operating as if young people are capable of greatness does not mean pandering. It means loving young people enough to push them, with warmth, grace, and humanity, to work harder than they may be inclined to. It means loving them enough to set limits, with humanity, constancy, and steadiness, of course. Those of us who are parents know this is true with our own children.7

The term *social justice*, I am aware, means different things to different people. Different teachers will in good conscience answer the call of equity in different ways,8 but if students attend schools that do not foster in them