every student conjecture was, “Hmmm. Interesting. Maybe we can look it up later and find out.” You’d do much better to have thought through a few likely responses and ensure you were clear on why they did or did not make sense. And though that’s obviously true for a lesson on the visible light spectrum, it’s just as true for topics like archetypes and fairy tales, as my colleague Hannah Solomon pointed out. Without first having made sure to reflect deeply on them, your lesson might still fail. But you’d be more likely to overlook the importance of reading up on fairy tales and the like because of their familiarity. Notice, however, this screenshot from Christine’s lesson. She’s annotated the plan with notes of preparation that show she’s been thinking about fairy tales and why they are particularly relevant to a story about life during wartime. Not only does her lesson plan provide background knowledge but her preparation shows that she’s reviewed and reflected and applied what she knows to be ready to teach it.

> something with which Andersen was all too familiar—he was bullied as a child. Universally, people enjoy a story in which truth wins out over lies, kindness is rewarded, obstacles are overcome by hard work and love, and good triumphs over evil. We enjoy escaping into the fantasy of a happy ending.  
> why do ppl like reading/listening to them?  
> ✓ What is the purpose of fairy tales?  
> 1. Considering the purpose of fairy tales, why would Annemarie include “feasts of pink frosted cupcakes” in the story she makes up for Kirsti?

So perhaps it’s worth asking: What habits do you have as a teacher to ensure that you are always investing in your knowledge? In this chapter we’ll discuss a few, but I’ll also observe that several successful schools I know use the phrase “intellectual preparation” to describe a key step in lesson preparation and they build this into professional development. Teachers get together before they teach a book or unit to talk through its important questions and share and prioritize key background knowledge that will allow them to teach it. I love the idea of such a meeting.