Nicole Warren's pacing in the video *Nicole Warren: Keystone* is masterful. Class starts with incredible energy that draws students in and makes them active and engaged: a song; a *Turn and Talk*; a discussion of student reflections from the *Turn and Talk*; and a longer stretch of focused independent work, with students locked-in and focused partly because of the energy of the preceding activities. Part of what makes Nicole's lesson work is her careful design of the flow from activity to activity, in other words, but also watch her release her students into the *Turn and Talk* just under a minute into the video or the independent practice just shy of four minutes in. There's a clear and engaging task. Then a tiny delay for suspense. Then, suddenly, a crisp and quick signal to start, with students leaping into action. Part of what makes the pacing so powerful is the quality of the transitions that begin each activity.

When you take steps to make the beginnings and endings of activities visible and crisp, you *Brighten the Lines*. By calling attention to changes in activities, you ensure that your students can perceive mileposts clearly, and make it easier for them to notice and be attracted to new activity. You're essentially harnessing their novelty bias in a productive way.

## Step 1: The Go Start

The first way to *Brighten Lines* is with a *go start*—shifting from one activity to another on a cue. Starting everyone at the same time with a statement such as, “Okay, scholars. You have three minutes to write a response to this question. Ready? Go!” has several advantages.

First, making the beginning of an activity “pop” makes the activity itself feel a bit like a special event. By using the phrase “go,” you build excitement and anticipation—much