the novel independently? It depends on which chapter you assign.

18. It's also worth noting that beginning with shared reading can act as an effective transition into independent reading—it's much easier to continue reading something you've started together, rather than to jump in cold.

19. Control the Game—which you are welcome to keep using if you prefer—originally came from the game of soccer. Certain central midfielders have the job of controlling the game, not by hogging the ball themselves but by being a brief and often nearly invisible pivot point: the ball comes to them and they pass it somewhere else. They coordinate the attack and set the rhythm, determining when others get opportunities and setting them up to succeed. Such players rarely score the goals. Their job is to organize and arrange the team, to get the ball to others so they can score. This process—ball comes in briefly, they pass it on to someone new, ball comes back, and they quickly move it on again in a different direction—reminded me of what a teacher does when steering reading opportunities around the room. Truly, it was an obscure and quirky reference at best. But there were a lot of techniques to name and you can't get them all right. At least it wasn't an acronym.

20. Student Achievement Partners’ report is only one of many that emphasize the critical role of fluency in comprehension at all grade levels as there is extensive research on this point. Their “Short Guide to Placing Text at the Center of Learning” can be found at their website:  
https://achievethecore.org/content/upload/A%20Short%20Guide%20to%20Placing%20Text%20at%20the%20Center%20of%20Learning.pdf#:~:text=Rationale%3A%20Re