—that come and go quickly enough to augment and work in synergy with the sense of flow.

Consider how Christine Torres drops quick humorous comments into her lesson. The vocabulary word is “caustic” and the *Turn and Talk* asks students to engage an inside joke: “Imagine Ms. Torres is a contestant on *American Idol*; what's a ‘caustic’ remark a judge might make about her singing?” Don't be silly, she adds, he would never make a caustic remark about Ms. Torres's singing. Maybe you see the belonging cues there: Ms. Torres's talent as a singer is an ongoing discussion, a sort of inside joke you would only get if you were in her class. But also note the speed of it. It’s a quick laugh that preserves the sense of flow. The joy students feel comes as much from their engaged study of the vocabulary as it does from the joke. Christine’s humor sits off stage and comments amusingly on the main action, but the lesson is still the star. Nicole Warren's math song works because it is fast. It would be half as joyful if it were twice as long.

This, I think, is another reason why it's important to differentiate joy from fun. We can play *Jeopardy!* to review during class today and that will be fun, but interestingly it may not also be joyful unless we engineer it well so that it is designed for flow. We can all recall the “fun” activity we designed that sparked no joy because the flow wasn't there or because the group dynamics didn't work well. And while we're at it, please recognize that the word “fun” can distract us. Most young people have fun when they play video games—though interestingly I am not sure they are joyful, perhaps because the degree of connection and belonging is missing. You can refer to “having fun” by itself but you don't “have joy” by itself. You *take joy or feel joy in doing something*. “Joy” is clearer on purpose than “fun.” It has meaning and engagement.