death struggle against the smartphone and it is losing. Given that written text uses a much wider range of not just vocabulary but also syntax than spoken language, one of the many ways this is relevant is that students are less frequently exposed to those forms of language. Allowing for more intentional use of elaborated and elevated syntax in your classroom can help to bridge at least some of the resulting gap.

## Audible Format

Take a moment to watch the brief segment of discussion about Lois Lowry's novel *Number the Stars* in the second half of the video *Christine Torres: Keystone*. Then watch the clip *Christine Torres: Loud and Proud*, which shows the influence of Christine asking students to speak audibly. In this clip you can see her reinforcement of the expectation during the discussion as well as during a series of moments earlier in the lesson. These results are striking. Students express themselves with confidence as if their ideas were valuable, and their classmates hear them clearly and all the nuances of what they say. The rich discussion you hear comes about in part because of this. Students hear arguments clearly and expressed as if they matter and respond accordingly. Combined with *Habits of Attention* (technique 48) and *Habits of Discussion* (technique 44), this sews the fabric of a culture where people listen to each other, value ideas, and thus speak honestly and openly with confidence.

None of this would happen if, when called upon, Christine's students mumbled or muttered so that other people in the room could not hear them.

There's not much point in discussing ideas with people who can't hear them, in other words; a classroom where marginally audible statements are common suggests that