- Glancing over students' shoulders at the ideas they are wrestling with in response to a question can allow you to “hunt” (select students or ideas that deserve the class’s attention and focus) rather than “fish” (call on students blindly in hopes that what they share will be germane or apropos). A Cold Call that starts, “Tariq, you used a fascinating word in your reflection: spurned. Can you talk about that a bit?” changes not only the discussion but Tariq's sense of himself as a valued thinker in the classroom.

Those are powerful things. But the *if* in “If you can get everyone to write” is a big one, especially if you raise your sights even a little higher—as in: “If you can reliably get every student to write willingly, thoughtfully, and on cue, and to sustain the effort for a significant duration.”

It’s a case where the sublime rests upon mastery of the mundane. The technique Silent Solo involves an apparently mundane goal: teaching students to reliably write, on cue, as a matter of habit. Once established, the technique is nearly invisible, manifested in humble moments observers might overlook. You say, of the outcome of an experiment or a scene in the novel, “Well, that was unexpected. Take 90 seconds to reflect in writing on reasons why this might have happened. Go!” Even though suddenly every pencil is scratching, observers might yawn and glance out the windows. They might see it as downtime—a little break in class. They might think your students arrived in your classroom doing that naturally. They’d be wrong, of course.

*Silent Solo* lets you send students into a task where the Participation Ratio is high—everyone in the room answering the question at once—and the Think Ratio is as well—framing ideas carefully in words is an inherently rigorous task. But the ability to conjure a moment like that