expect. Even using the cue “Begin” as compared to the cue “Go!” suggests less a race and more of a journey. This way, you get the benefits of everyone starting on cue and making good use of time, but also clear and efficient communication of the idea, “I want you to think deeply here; I am looking for thoughtfulness as much as productivity.”

In Christine Torres's class, we see her cue a go start in several different ways. During the vocabulary rollout section of her lesson, her cues to Turn and Talk are high energy and crisp—“Fifteen seconds with your teammate, go!” Students jump into conversation without a moment to lose. Her goal in this section of the lesson is high engagement and participation ratio; she wants to boost the energy of the room and make this section of the lesson feel fast. For a slightly more challenging question, she gives a little more time and slows the pace of her delivery “How does this image demonstrate the word ‘caustic’? Look carefully at the image. Thirty seconds with your teammate to discuss. How does the image demonstrate the word ‘caustic’? Ready, go.” Later in the lesson, as she guides students through a rigorous discussion of Annemarie's bravery, her cues are even slower and reflect the thoughtful focus she hopes students bring to a writing task: “With a teammate … answer questions 2A and 2B. Three minutes, if you're not done, that's OK … Three minutes, go.” In all three instances, students have a clear cue to begin working (as well as a precise time limit, which we'll talk more about in a moment), but the subtle variations in her tone and the speed with which she gives the directions reflect the type of energy she hopes students will bring to the task.

To see the range of ways in which teachers use clear in cues to Brighten the Lines (while signaling the type of work they expect students to engage in), check out the video Montage: Brighten Lines of teachers launching their