disinterest and silence from the class, your relationship will not likely flourish. If it does it will be a Pyrrhic victory. Successful relationships require teachers to make use of the authority vested in them to build a culture that ensures students feel safe and supported *by the community*. It is not just your own actions you must shape to create the conditions under which students grow and thrive. Students see this clearly. You can tell Melissa you loved her comment after class all you want. If she knows that during class she will be an object of strange curiosity every time she makes a similar comment, she will be less likely to feel the trust in you that relationships require.

*Successful*, as I have tried to explain throughout this chapter, derives from your overall effectiveness at the core tasks of teaching. When you do those tasks well, students see themselves progressing and succeeding, and this causes them to feel trust and appreciation. A corollary: Helping students to feel successful and to see convincing evidence of their own progress also helps to build relationships.

But what about the idea of students feeling *known*? Let's say you have a student. Let's call her Elicia. She'd like to know that you see her as unique, different from Candace to her left and Edward to her right. Begin by knowing her name and how she likes to say it (EE-lee-cee-ah rather than Uh-lee-sha). Use her name whenever you can: Every time you use a student's name you remind her that you know her. Perhaps you've got a couple of simple downtime questions you ask for when she and other students are first to arrive to class: *Morning, Elicia. Everything go OK on the homework for you?* Perhaps occasionally you even Cold Call Elicia to show that you are thinking about her experience in class. “Elicia, you feel confident at these problems?” “Elicia, were you convinced by Kennedy's argument?”