understanding of the mathematical principles—but makes it clear that she's come up with the right answer for a different setting. The third and fourth acknowledge that the task is not the sort of thing you try just once and get right. They normalize struggle.

As this *Culture of Error* is created, students become more likely to *want* to expose their mistakes. This shift from defensiveness or denial to openness is critical. As a teacher you can now spend less time and energy hunting for mistakes and more time learning from them. Similarly, if the goal is for students to learn to self-correct—to find and address errors on their own—becoming comfortable acknowledging mistakes is a critical step forward.

## Building a Culture of Error

A teacher alone cannot establish a culture in which it is safe to struggle and fail. If snickers greet a classmate who gets an answer wrong, for example, or if impatient hands wave in the air while another student is trying to answer, very little that a teacher does will result in students feeling safe exposing their mistakes to the group.

Shaping how students respond to one another's struggles is, therefore, a must. It is a process that starts with teaching students the right way to handle common situations. That is, explain how you expect them to act when someone struggles *before it happens*, share the rationale, practice the expected behaviors in hypothetical situations, and if (when) a breach occurs, reset the culture firmly, but with understanding. You might say something like, “Just a minute. I want to be very clear that we always support each other and help one another in this classroom. And we never, ever undertake actions that tear down another person. It's difficult but I will expect that of all of