*know more than they said* but that *there's still some work to be done* or that you want them to *push themselves to be even more precise with their words*.

Take, for example, a scene from Lauren Harris Vance's class some years ago at Roxbury Prep Charter School in Boston. Lauren asked a student for the slope of a line. The actual slope was negative four-fifths, but the student gave the slope as four-fifths. Where another teacher might have said, “Right, except you need a negative sign,” Lauren said, “Hmm. I like *most* of that”—expressing in five short words both “You did some good work” and “You're still not all the way there, but I know you can close that gap.” The positivity, honesty, and simplicity of Lauren's response provides a road map for *Right Is Right* responses. To be effective with *Right Is Right*, reply to “almost right” answers in a way that is appreciative and often upbeat about what's been accomplished.

It's worthwhile to come up with a few commonly used phrases of your own—planned ways of saying just what you want in common situations. Keep them at the ready—in your back pocket, so to speak. Once you've come up with two or three phrases, use them to simply and consistently enforce *Right Is Right* and make rigorous answers a habit for your students.

Your phrases should:
- Show appreciation for good work that's been done.
- Be clear and honest about the fact that more work is needed.
- Be fast enough in the delivery to allow you and the student to quickly get back to the thinking.
- Be simple and familiar enough that you can use them with near-automaticity.