additional fundamentals: names, reciprocal looking, and rephrasing.

Consider this moment from a discussion in an eighth-grade classroom about Lincoln's inaugural address.

“I think Lincoln looked weak and maybe conflicted in extending an ‘olive branch’ to the Southern states,” Jabari says.

“No,” Jamila counters, “He says he will enforce federal laws in states that secede. He's drawing a clear line in the sand but trying not to seem like he's provoking conflict.”

Jamila is looking at the teacher as she says this, implying that the teacher is the person whose opinion matters most. Jabari, and the fact that the argument she is responding to is his, is just not that relevant to Jamila.

Now imagine the scene slightly differently. Michelle turns to Jabari. “Jabari,” she says, “I don't read Lincoln's words as ‘conflicted.’ He says he will enforce federal laws in states that secede. He's drawing a clear line in the sand but trying not to seem like he's provoking conflict.”

In looking at Jabari, in using his name in the response and implicitly summarizing his point and using his exact words —“I don't read Lincoln's words as conflicted”—Michelle has emphasized the fact that she is responding to him directly. Her actions say, I listened carefully to your argument; I understood and respect it. Alex Pentland, who leads the program on Connection Studies at MIT, notes that studies on team performance have found that cultures where “members communicate directly with one another ... not just the team leader”7 tend to be the most successful and collaborative learning environments.

Reciprocally looking at Jabari—looking back at him to show she is responding to him—rephrasing his argument and using his name all build the fabric of support and