If you and your students shift activities or move to different areas of the room, your management system should follow. Whether you're teaching from desks or the carpet, stick with the system and approach that students know and understand. Otherwise, students will quickly learn when and where they can test the limits.

## As Private as Possible

In technique 55, *Least Invasive Intervention*, I discuss the benefits of privacy. When you seek to employ it, you remind a student that you are not trying to embarrass them, and you avoid situations where responses are public and a relationship-corrosive back and forth may ensue. These things are doubly important when giving consequences. We want students to know we give consequences when we must, and we should be prepared for them not to be happy about it. In both cases privacy helps. Using a whisper correction, a nonverbal gesture, or a private individual correction can help.

## Depersonalized

Avoid personalizing consequences by keeping them as private as possible (with a whisper, during a one-on-one interaction, for example) and by judging actions instead of people (for example, “That was inconsiderate of your classmates, Daniel,” versus “You are very inconsiderate, Daniel.”). Maintaining privacy shows consideration to the student, which can go a long way toward preserving your relationship with him or her. It also keeps behavior offstage, which reduces the likelihood of attention-seeking behavior or a public standoff that benefits no one.

Finally, strive to remember that strong teacher emotions distract students from reflecting on the behavior(s) that resulted in a consequence. Maintain a neutral facial expression and steady tone of voice when you deliver the