perceive subconsciously, and then later create explanations and justifications for those responses. Those justifications and responses are often “based on socially strategic purposes.” We react in a fraction of a second and afterwards try to convince ourselves that our responses were justified and look to use our responses to build the social bonds that are so important to us.

*Ha! That was funny. I laughed too!*

*Ha! What a fool he is. You and I, we are smarter than that.*

The chain of reactions that begins with how people read our tone, expression, and body language is long and complex. *Strong Voice* helps you attend to signals communicated by such factors in your communication as a teacher and use them to increase the likelihood that students will react productively and positively to the things you ask of them. This is especially important because attending to such signals can be especially valuable in avoiding or resolving situations where emotions run hot and where the follow-through required from students is far better achieved without raised voices or recrimination.

Aligning your tone, expression, and body language signals to the rest of your communication helps you to build stronger relationships, ensure productivity and, especially, avoid the sorts of showdowns that can spiral into negativity. A shouting match is a disaster for teacher and student, in the moment it happens and over the long run of a relationship that often struggles to recover. Needless to say there is a lot more to building relationships than the topics discussed here. They are merely one contributing aspect—a critical one for a person charged with responsibility for ensuring that thirty students get from point A to point B in a timely manner so learning can happen and regardless of whatever is on their personal agendas at the moment.