Watch the video *Michael Towne: Red Dye from Stretch It* (technique 17) again and notice how, as Michael drops dye into water of two different temperatures, his students apply knowledge that he has taught them. They are able to see what's happening because they have the prior knowledge to do so.

“Present new material in small steps with student practice after each step,” advises Barak Rosenshine in *Principles of Instruction*, his guide to teacher effectiveness. This takes time but is worth it. It makes the implicit explicit for students and uses practice to consolidate understanding before working memory is overloaded. This, cognitive psychologists suggest, is the way students learn best when they are not experts. “Teaching in small steps requires time, and the more effective teachers [in studies] spent more time presenting new material and guiding student practice than did the less effective teachers,” Rosenshine notes. “In a study of mathematics instruction, for instance, the most effective mathematics teachers spent about twenty-three minutes of a forty-minute period in lecture, demonstration, questioning, and working examples.” In contrast, less effective teachers spent only eleven minutes methodically explaining and practicing new material, Rosenshine notes.

Working memory is quickly overloaded by too much new material at once. Solution: Break down what you're doing into steps. Take the steps one by one. Let students practice each one. As they practice, ask questions of two different types: conceptual (what are we doing?) and procedural questions (how do we do it?), going back and forth between the two when possible.

The video *Rachel Boothman: We Are Solving* provides an excellent model of Rosenshine's idea of methodically explaining and practicing new material as well as the idea