using filler words and one outcome can be that you appear nervous.

Another benefit of Economy of Language is that it focuses listeners on the most important points of what you said, eliminating the distraction of unnecessary language.

When emotions are running high, and your students' thinking brains may be clouded with negative emotion, brevity can be a powerful ally. By keeping your directions simple and concise, you can cut through the brain fog wrought by an active limbic system and help students stay focused on the path forward. This simplicity and repetition is crucial, as researchers have found that when you're under duress, your emotions “swamp the thinking brain's capacity to focus” on even the simplest of tasks.18 Striving for Economy of Language can also discipline you to resist the temptation to engage in the kind of unnecessary argument and debate that can make a tense situation worse.

To be clear, I am not suggesting that you need to use Economy of Language when you are discussing anaerobic respiration or the last chapter of *Lord of the Flies*—just when you're discussing behavior and when there are potential distractions. If anything, maintaining Economy of Language when you're correcting unproductive behavior or giving directions helps you conserve your time, words, and energy for such academic instruction.

Most of the Keystone clips contain examples of strong Economy of Language in critical moments, particularly the start of class or a transition where the teacher wants to maintain energy and momentum. Nicole Warren is a good example; her bright joyful energy is emphasized by her choice of few words when students are getting started with the lesson: “Eyes up here ... waiting on one ... tell your partner ...” Or Jessica Bracey, who transitions from Omar to