your conversations.” You can also signal that students can expect it during class by *Cold Calling* right at the beginning. Not only does this let students know it’s coming and keep them engaged all lesson long, but to the degree that you find it awkward to start *Cold Calling* the first few times you do it, it’s actually easier to do it right away. You can plan it and then there’s no awkward feeling to overcome when it suddenly starts.

Another essential step in making *Cold Call* predictable to your students is a rollout speech. Na’Jee’s and Denarius’s can’t be seen in these videos because they happened on the first day or two of school. A rollout is the ultimate in predictability—you make the what, the why, and the how totally transparent to students before using the technique so they see it coming and know how to react. You might say something like:

In this class I’m going to *Cold Call* you. That means I may ask for you to answer a question or share your opinion, whether or not you’ve raised your hand. This allows me to balance who participates and to hear from everyone. And sometimes I want to know what you and you alone are thinking. I’ll try to remember to smile when I *Cold Call*, which is my way of reminding you that I always want you to do well. So if I call on you, do your best, even if you feel a little nervous. If you’re stuck, tell us what you’re confused about, and we’ll help you out. That’s what your classmates and I are here for. But, honestly, I think you’re going to surprise yourself. Let’s try a bit now…

BreOnna Tindall of Denver School of Science and Technology, whose teaching figures throughout this book, shared some great details of her rollout. “I tell them the difference between the different types of calls—I’ll look for volunteers, I love hands, we’ll do some warm calling. I