“Well, it's just thirty seconds” but rather, “Good gosh, thirty seconds—how can we use that well?” There's a quiet confidence implicit in such a shift. The well-it's-just-thirty-seconds teacher tacitly assumes that he could not do much with thirty seconds, so why bother? The second teacher knows, believes in, and embraces how much he might accomplish even in a very short period of time. After all, almost everything we've ever learned, we learned in the end, in a minute. There was an extra minute of reflection, practice, explanation, or discussion that pushed us over the top and perfected our skill or knowledge. There's no reason to believe that the profundity of the learning has to correlate to the glamour, predictability, and formality of the setting. The critical moment can just as easily come at 2:59 p.m. on Friday afternoon as the buses start to fill the circle in front of school as it can in the middle of your lesson on Wednesday morning.

Once you've embraced that notion, you'll start seeing pockets of time everywhere, where once, it seems, none had existed. A bit of occasional advance planning will help you make the most of it. Keeping at the ready—in your “back pocket”—some activities and groups of thematic questions aligned to what you're teaching can make the difference.

## Back-Pocket Questions

If you work in a school, you are alert to the constant potential for the unexpected. Schools are complex organizations where the perfect flow of scheduled events is sometimes disrupted. So it's useful to be ready for the unexpected by having a portfolio of quick and useful back-pocket questions ready to go. These activities are also much easier to incorporate impromptu when students recognize them as something familiar that they know. You might opt to give a name to the activities you do most often