He even shares that intention with them at the end: “Glad to see so many more hands....” Only when the routine is seamless and clear can you drop it in impromptu like this. But if you can it's an ideal tool for responding to crickets.

## Managing Turns and Listening Behaviors

A quick, consistent *Turn and Talk* in-cue helps foster energetic discussion among all students. But to return to one of the themes of this chapter, the value of the discussion that comes after relies as much on the quality of the listening as it does on the quality of the talking, so it's worth taking a moment to consider some of the ways teachers can build and reinforce listening behaviors during *Turn and Talk*.

One of my favorites is the occasional use of managed turns—intentionally cueing one partner or the other to start first. This is valuable because we can make two important assumptions about most *Turn and Talks*. First, the talking within them won't be split evenly. Sometimes the first person to talk will talk through the whole *Turn and Talk*. This can be for legitimate reasons—the *Turn and Talk* is short, and it takes a while to make a point, or they're caught up in an idea. Second, we can assume that some students are more inclined to talk than others. They are likely to interpret the phrase “*Turn and Talk* to your partner, go!” as a cue to start talking themselves. Others are more reserved by nature. They are likely to interpret the phrase “*Turn and Talk* to your partner, go!” as a cue to glance at their partner and encourage them to start talking. Not always, of course, but there are tendencies, stronger or weaker, among specific students. If we pair them neutrally, those who tend to talk more will talk more—when perhaps it would be more beneficial for them to practice listening—and those who are quieter will be more inclined to listen—