nothing at all with their words but a great deal with their eyes, and no matter how much you understand the imperative of trust and relationships, in that moment you will still be standing there in need of a solution that can bring the situation toward a positive resolution, set basic expectations around effort, and reinforce both caring and accountability. Just telling students you care and want the best for them every so often is not likely to be sufficient to shift established behaviors and mindsets. You will require some option other than “the deal.”

Using a *No Opt Out* in this situation gives you a viable and productive response. In order to help students make the change from reluctance or refusal to effort, teachers must first reduce or eliminate the pathway to the “easy out,” forestall the opportunity for students to not engage a question when they don't know or don't want to try. It reduces the chances that a student might use “I don't know” on purpose to avoid having to answer because you have required effort of them (even if merely repeating an answer) and so have reduced the incentive. Then teachers must make a base level of effort a habit. That teachers should do this with understanding, humanity, and emotional constancy and that students should do it in a safe environment characterized by mutual respect and decency among students goes without saying.

*No Opt Out* can also help you to understand the student more. If you're not sure whether a student is trying, then simplifying the task, even to the point of asking for a mere restating of an answer, helps to reveal whether you are dealing with a confused student or an unwilling participant. A confused student can always make an effort to repeat. Once they've done that, you can start building them up, via little successes, *Stretch Its*, and positive reinforcement. The path forward involves showing them that they can