brief rollout speech, perhaps something like this: “I’ll often help you identify how to say it in the language that college and the workplace will expect of you. How you speak in your lives outside the classroom is beautiful to me, but my job is to help you learn a specific version of the language so you are ready for the world. So I’ll often tell you how to say things in Standard English. When I do, do your best to fix it but know that I’m never judging you. I speak differently outside these four walls too.”

As this rollout suggests, it’s important that corrections be kept judgment-free—our goal is to prepare students for the world while reinforcing their faith in themselves and their ability. In *Culturally Responsive Teaching and the Brain*, Zaretta Hammond reminds us to make sure that language correction is “instructive feedback” that helps learners focus on making “specific adjustments.” It should always be “timely” and “delivered in a low-stress environment” rather than evaluative.

So the goal is to find simple techniques to identify and correct errors with minimum distraction. Two simple methods are especially helpful:

1. *Identify the error.* When a student makes a grammatical error, merely repeat the error in a gently interrogative tone. You can watch Darryl Williams do this in the video *Darryl Williams: Has to Be*. “It gets to be?” Darryl asks when a student uses that phrase. He then allows the student to self-correct—he’s previously explained that they should plan to correct if he points out an error.

2. *Begin the correction.* When a student makes a grammatical error, begin to rephrase the answer, then allow the student to complete it. In the second example in the video, Darryl begins, “It has …” leaving the