problem to solve:  
Which of the following functions would be parallel to the line y = 3x? Select all that apply.

A y = -3x -5 B y = 3x -5 C y = -3x  
D y = -3x +5 E y = 3x +5 F y = 3x +0

He *Cold Called* students to name the correct answers, and most students understood the problem very quickly and eliminated A, C, and D, though one or two choose A as the correct answer, so Bryan quickly reviewed: “What must every answer need to have to be correct?” he asked.

“A slope of 3,” a student replied, so Bryan annotated the problem, writing “m = 3” above the prompt and asked his students to do the same. He didn't want to just correct the understanding, he wanted them to have a record of it.

Then Bryan challenged his students. “Actually,” he said, “one of the three other answers is also not correct. Can anyone tell me which one and why?”

He took hands here, and one of his students observed that “F had the same slope but also the same y-intercept.”

“Yes,” Bryan said. “That's subtle but important. It's the same line and a line can't technically be parallel to itself.”

Then again Bryan locked down the teaching point through mark-up.

He asked students to be sure to cross out answer F in their packets and to write in the margin “same line” so they remembered not only that F wasn't correct but why. Then he had them add a note so that above parallel they wrote: “Same slope but different y-intercept.”

Thus in the end students had in front of them a perfect record of what they'd learned. It looked something like this: