Mindfulness Breaks 215

every time it is used. However, it may not be optimal for students, especially younger ones, until they are comfortable with Mindfulness Breaks as a concept. This MBI is a combination of GGI #2 and GGI #11, with the only difference being that you will point toward a Mindfulness Center. When done correctly, this says to the student, “Are you OK? Do you need a break? I respect and like you, and I’m trying to give you a little prompt without embarrassing you.”

In one way, this is a bit more intrusive than MBIs #2–4 because it usually requires some kind of response—often nonverbal—from the student. Usually it will garner a quick “no” head shake. This is fantastic: it’s a healthy form of rejection of a suggestion from a teacher. Your response should be a quick, discreet head nod, as if to say, “Cool. Good. Just checking.” The most effective use of Mindfulness Breaks involves teachers implementing this MBI almost exclusively.

2. **Ask MBI.** Simply whisper, “Do you need a break?” Wait for a response without eye contact and without squaring your shoulders to the student. “No” is a great answer. “Yes” is a great answer. No answer is a great answer. Walk away if you don’t get one.

3. **Rule-Choice MBI.** Ask, “Can you follow our rules, or do you need to go to [name of Mindfulness Center]?” Say it and walk away. Notice that the question stimulates thinking and the choice gives the student preventive, healthy control. An answer is not required. You can—but don’t have to—come back soon after and whisper, “You stayin’?” The colloquial writing is purposeful and important. Language here should be overtly comfortable and familiar. It should be spoken in a register that is close to the student’s own. Of course, you don’t want to force anything that feels inauthentic, but crisply asking, “Are you staying?” is less effective at keeping students out of their brain stem.

4. **Rule-Statement MBI.** Say to the student, “Feel free to stay with us as long as you are following our rules,” and walk away. If the student chooses to take a Mindfulness Break, great. If the student chooses not to take a Mindfulness Break, great. Either way, the student is taking control and advocating for themselves through their actions. They are choosing the best way to regulate their own behavior. Having choices about how they regulate themselves helps students to regulate themselves!

If students choose to take a Mindfulness Break, you need to always invite the student back using the following script, and nothing else:

Come back as soon as you are ready. We want you to be with us.