Academic Control-Sharing Procedures 141

during Afternoon Meeting, described later in the chapter. The team of the day will rotate from day to day based on an order decided by you. The only responsibility that you have in maintaining the TOD is to make a colored dot on a spot on the board before students arrive every day. The team whose color matches the color of the dot is the TOD.

Every day, place a note in the TOD’s mailbox or on their team table or desks that involves a friendly greeting, any announcements that need to be made, and the day’s schedule. The TOD can immediately get to work on writing the day’s schedule on the board. The title of my schedule that I handed the TOD to post every day was “Fun Things to Do Today.” This implied that the school day is meant to be enjoyable.

For classes that are self-contained, or for classes that switch once throughout the day, each lesson should be referred to, in order, as a lesson that is to be learned, not an activity that must be done. Therefore, you should not write “math” as one of the “Fun Things.” The word “math” holds little or no value by itself, and perhaps no word in the English language produces less excitement in the average human brain than the word “math.” “Learn about rays and angles” is significantly more compelling: “What is an angle?” students might ask themselves. “What’s a ray? Is that like a stingray? I like stingrays. I don’t really like math, but maybe I’ll find out if a ray is like a stingray. Hmm. I am sort of looking forward to that.”

One extra step you can take is by communicating with teachers about what will be learned in their classes, so that instead of listing “PE” as just something that everyone has to do, you could have students write “Learn to accurately throw a ball at a target,” for example. Listing the things to be learned instead of just showing your students what they will be doing makes a profound difference in buy-in and excitement about learning every single day.

For classes and grade levels that teach patterns and multiplication, consider sharing a “rule” (adding by 7, subtracting by 2) or a pattern (ABBC). Have the TOD incorporate the pattern and rule into the schedule list, and see if the other students can figure out what they are (see Figure 8.1).

## Tip for TOD Schedule Writing

For a more relaxed, comfortable way for the TOD to design and post the daily schedule, you may want to create a removable dry-erase board so the students can work together on the schedule at their desks or on the floor. Simply take a portable dry-erase board, at least three feet by two feet, and apply magnetic tape to the back so students can place it on the magnetized board at the front