264 The Classroom Behavior Manual

goes on. Of course, if the behavior continues or starts up again, you can pick another GGI or go to a DLO.

Notice that, if you had all of the information, you would probably use your delaying script in order to inform Student A that there would be a DLO coming in the future. The fact of the matter, however, is that teachers often don’t have all of the necessary information, which causes traditional discipline to put teachers in impossible situations (more on that in a moment).

Even though most teachers would want to give a DLO, the use of a GGI stopped the behavior without you having to stop teaching: the GGI accomplished its goal! In addition, later, during noninstructional time, you can always get more information and enact a DLO if necessary. You can also make sure stolen property is returned.

Conversely, if you notify both students of a DLO and move on with teaching, it is likely to stop the behavior, even though you have made what could be called a mistake by notifying an innocent student of a DLO. That student may request due process, or not, and then this can be worked out later during noninstructional time. Either way, the use of a GGI or DLO does not require you to stop teaching and allows you to “fix it later” if your assessment of the situation was incomplete or wrong. This is just another example of how GGIs and DLOs can make your life far less stressful.

Let’s use this scenario to compare the GGI/DLO model with the traditional discipline model involving verbal demands and immediate punishments. While both GGIs and DLOs are good options, having to choose between demands or punishments puts educators in an impossible situation. A demand such as “Stop messing with each other!” is almost guaranteed to inspire (understandable) arguments or explosive behaviors and is 100 percent certain to stop instruction. If an immediate punishment is used, like sending one or both students to the principal, it is possible that you could be “convicting” an innocent person! Traditional discipline fails once again.

The second, perhaps more helpful answer to the question of when to use GGIs and when to use DLOs is that GGIs should be used with small behaviors that aren’t making it significantly difficult for students to learn and for you to teach. This means that whether you choose to use a DLO or GGI will depend upon you and what you are able to tolerate. It will depend upon what your “hot button” behaviors are. If a certain behavior drives you crazy, it needs to earn that student a one-way ticket to a DLO. A behavior that gets a student a DLO in your class may not get one in mine, simply because that behavior doesn’t bother me as much as it does you. For instance, note passing may drive you crazy. It happens to not bother me very much. Therefore, you would use a DLO, while I would use a GGI. This is another example of taking care of