Relationship-Building Strategies 43

strategies. (Notice that within these procedures, I use my own Calm Signal as a placeholder; feel free to use mine, or create your own and plug it in.)

The Calm Signal is a Pavlovian cue to the brain of the teacher and the brain of the student, indicating it is time to be calm, to relax, and to think. Over time, the use of the Calm Signal can keep both teachers and students in their prefrontal cortex, where they are still able to think. The expert educator will use the Calm Signal almost constantly in the beginning of the year in an effort to remain calm and encourage students to remain calm as well.

## The “Bad Kid” Cycle and How to Stop It

Students who consistently use negative behaviors to get what they want use negative behaviors as a matter of habit. This bad habit usually starts at home: children notice that when they use a negative behavior (perhaps arguing or screaming about not getting a wanted toy), they may get the tangible thing that they want (the toy). Of course, when this scenario repeats, the child may create a bad habit of negative behavior because they consistently get the desired “thing.”

Additionally, if the adult does not give the child the toy, but they do get angry, they are also giving the child what they want: the feeling that they can control an adult. Many children would rather have that feeling of control than a toy.

Parents will only rarely react to this shifting power dynamic by consistently giving in to demands of their small children (giving the toy). What does often happen is that, as children see their negative behaviors becoming more and more successful at getting more and more control over their parents’ emotions, they start using more and worse negative behaviors to get even more control, creating a power struggle that reinforces the child’s negative behavior as long as the parent continues to get angry. This is the Bad Kid Cycle.

Unfortunately for teachers, this cycle continues when the child begins school. The student has developed a habit of getting what they want (think “toy” or “control of an adult”). Predictably, they attempt to continue the Bad Kid Cycle at school.

That’s where educators come in.

For the sake of the teacher, the school, and the student, the educator must stop these students from continuing the Bad Kid Cycle. This is done by not giving in and not getting angry.

Of course, telling a teacher not to get angry in response to an out-of-control classroom would be worse than worthless advice. Any teacher with a functional limbic system trying to “grin and bear” an onslaught of negative behaviors will eventually become very angry indeed. Furthermore, human beings cannot effectively train