236 The Classroom Behavior Manual

The world is full of constant stimuli. The world is stimuli. The goal of this book is to train students to be able to control their responses to the world so that they are able to respond in ways that make the world better instead of worse.

The word “discipline,” after all, means “to become one’s own disciple”: to lead one’s self. The effective definition of the word “discipline” can be construed as “to be able to control one’s own responses to stimuli so that those responses do not cause problems for others.” Therefore, responsibility is not part of discipline—it is discipline. To be responsible is to be disciplined.

Students must have the ability to respond to the world in ways that don’t cause problems. If they are unable to do this, it is the job of the educator to train them to do so. Thus far, this manual has shown how to prevent negative behaviors and how to gently mitigate the use of slightly negative behaviors through the use of GGIs. The Procedural Learning Opportunities within the procedures will do much of this training and will become part of the daily fabric of your classroom. You have also learned how to not destroy the lessons of the Universe and its Natural Learning Opportunities. These PLOs and NLOs create a healthy terminal destination for negative behaviors, in that the negative behaviors do not get the student what they want. The final piece of the puzzle to address negative behaviors that cannot be dealt with through any of these means is through Delayed Learning Opportunities.

## Problem-Solving DLOs

There are two kinds of Problem-Solving DLOs: Situational and Destressing. Situational Problem-Solving DLOs are used when students cause problems for other people and there is a realistic way that the student can solve the problem by taking action. These are DLOs that seem more or less obvious to most. It is likely that experienced teachers will have already used many of these, though without proper instruction, most teachers use them ineffectively. Remember that these should never happen immediately after the negative behavior: They are Delayed Learning Opportunities. You must “get to later” the proper way before giving the DLO. Some examples follow:

- DLO-worthy behavior: A 2nd grade student has a temper tantrum in art class and knocks over her table’s art supplies.  
  Problem-Solving DLO: The student must pick up the art supplies that she knocked over.
- DLO-worthy behavior: A high school junior threatens to beat up a classmate.