Part II: Relationship-Building Procedures 71

those students. The fine print between the lines demands a great deal more of you, because your students must first be open to learning. In your classroom, you can’t just make it up as you go. You must lay the groundwork for your class’s society by creating an environment in which students are open to and able to learn whatever you have to teach. With all of the other responsibilities you have as a teacher, you can’t do this on the fly.

Teachers cannot instill a sense of ownership in their students or build effective relationships with them simply by taking advantage of momentary opportunities when (or if) they arise. This is particularly true with challenging or difficult students, which includes those who come into the class with antisocial goals. Teachers are far too busy to conjure up relationship-building magic on the spot, and students know how to exploit busyness.

Chapter 5 explicitly teaches Relationship-Building Procedures that can be woven into the fabric of the classroom. These procedures provide a structure through which students develop ownership and build relationships every day. You should introduce them in the first three weeks, and then use them with the students every single day. As the procedures become part of the classroom, students will begin to feel like part of the classroom, too. Moreover, the procedures are designed to put students in charge of their own behavior, which in turn, helps them feel in charge of their classroom and reduces the time and energy required of you. Students come to see the classroom as their classroom—not a classroom owned by the teacher to which they have been arbitrarily assigned. And when students feel ownership of their classroom, it is easier for you to teach.