162 The Classroom Behavior Manual

**Differentiation for Grades 4-12**

As stated previously, 4th–12th grade differentiation is actually a simplification because, in most U.S. schools, grades 4–12 involve specialized classes. (If you have a self-contained classroom in any grade, follow the above procedure without these modifications.)

**For Secondary Grades**

As a teacher of only one subject, your simplifications may be obvious to you:

- Your academic Nows will only correspond to the subject that you teach.
- Your academic Laters will only correspond to the subject that you teach.
- You will have significantly fewer Nows. If you have a 48-minute class period, for example, you will typically only have one or two Nows.
- In the first three weeks, you should plan so that the hardest-working students are able to complete all Nows in the first 25 to 30 minutes of class. Remember not to challenge students too much during this time, and make sure to have a great Mystery Later at least four out of five days.
- “Work in office” can be a fantastic Later in schools where school administrative assistants need help answering phones or filing non-HIPAA-related papers. For secondary students in schools that have adjoining elementary schools, helping with younger students can be a Later. Anything that is OK with your administration can be a Later.
- If your administration stresses “teaching bell-to-bell,” you will tend to lean on excellent academic Laters instead of nonacademic or classroom job Laters to encourage hard work. Remember, an academic Later still involves academic work to academic standards. In addition, you should ask your administrator to read this Real-World Workshop section of the manual so that they might then allow you to get your students more quickly addicted to hard work using nonacademic Laters, Mystery Laters, and Closing Down School.
- If and when your students can work hard enough to Close Down School, let that time be as fun as your students can make it without causing problems for you or for them. Your students should be eligible for this possibility near the end of every class period. Truly let students do whatever they want unless it causes a problem. If it does not contradict your values, you can even allow students to check their phones, watch ridiculous (but appropriate) internet videos on the class SMART Board, have an impromptu dance contest, and generally goof off. Slowly increase academic rigor over time so that this outcome eventually