A Dramatic Proposition 5

linoleum, extending my outreached arms across the counter. If I had not still been in shock, I think I might have started crying. “They were completely out of control. How in the world do you control those kids?” I asked.

She laughed a slow, sad laugh. “Who said I can control those kids? Your guess is as good as mine. I took today off for a mental health day. I’m just here for an Intervention Assistance Team meeting.”

“How do you stay sane? Is it really like that every day?”

“I wasn’t in there with you, but I am guessing it is pretty much the same. I’m sorry you had to deal with them today. I just needed a break. And I don’t stay sane. This is my last year teaching. I’m quitting. I’m done. It’s my second year. I have no idea how I’m going to make it to the end of the year. I taught 5th grade last year and it was horrible. I thought kindergarten would be easier, but it’s not.”

I was stunned.

“But your room, it’s so perfect . . . you’ve got the rules up . . . and the cards . . . doesn’t that stuff help?”

“It worked great for the first morning on the first day, and then all hell broke loose in the afternoon. I’ve been in hell ever since.”

“What happened? What happened at the end of the morning that made them act like that?”

I got the idea that this question would have offended her if she had any kind of respect for me or my opinion. She let out what could be described as a cross between a sigh and an exasperated chuckle.

“You mean, what did I do to mess them up in my first three hours with them? Look, what you saw today—they came in like that. A lot happens to these kids before they show up on the first day of kindergarten.”

I felt bad for asking the question, but I pressed on. I needed help. I wanted answers. “Can you tell me anything that actually works in getting these kids to do what they’re supposed to do?”

She picked up a box of files and started walking toward the door as she spoke. “Look, I really am sorry to put you through what you went through today, and I don’t want to be this negative. This isn’t the person I want to be, which is why I’m getting out. But I have to be honest with you: nothing works.”

**"Nothing Works"**

Those words haunted me, and with every day of the several months that I continued to work as a substitute teacher, they proved to be more and more correct. Every day,