192 The Classroom Behavior Manual

# The "Impossible Choice" and the Most Vulnerable Students

This binary choice is most acutely apparent when working with students with high ACE scores who have high control needs. Any experienced teacher using traditional discipline practices has dreaded making the "impossible choice" with these students. From experience, teachers know that they will repeat, intensify, and explore low-level negative behaviors when they are ignored. They also know that if they use a declarative statement, even politely worded, to try to stop the behavior, this type of student is likely to explode, stopping all education and perhaps ruining the rest of a class period or even an entire morning or afternoon.

## The Solution to the "Impossible Choice"

The good news is that there is a third option for attending to low-level negative behaviors. This third and most effective option is the use of a Gentle Guidance Intervention. These interventions are ways of gently guiding students toward positive behaviors, ways that are far more pleasant than declarative statements, even when those statements are said calmly. GGIs do not embarrass, coerce, threaten, or scare students into using positive behaviors. They merely guide students toward positive behaviors without the use of such tactics. They are highly effective in this effort when used in the context of the rest of the procedures and strategies in this manual. GGIs are not intended to teach students lessons about behavior. When the GGIs fail to guide students to positive behavior, Delayed Learning Opportunities (DLOs; see Chapter 11) will do the teaching about behavior.

## How to Use GGIs

The 42 GGIs are listed as a menu, ordered from least time-consuming and least intrusive to most time-consuming and most intrusive, although none of the GGIs are truly time-consuming or intrusive. Use this chapter like a menu at a restaurant. Don’t feel the need to order the first thing on the menu, then the second, then the third, and so on. Instead, pick and choose the GGIs that you find to be the most appealing. Ignore the ones that you don’t want to use. As you experiment, try to use the GGI with the lowest number that you feel still fits the situation. These are the interventions that are the best for you because they take the least time, and they are the best for the student because they are the least intrusive. If the behavior doesn’t change, strongly consider moving to other GGIs down the menu before proceeding to Delayed Learning Opportunities.