Academic Control-Sharing Procedures 161

rather do, which are your Laters. Here’s the thing: when everyone in the room is done with all of their Nows, we’re done. School is closed. There’s a law that says that we have to be here until [dismissal time], but as far as I’m concerned, our school day will be over. We can sort of do anything you want to do. I don’t really care what we do. Now I’m not saying everyone must get done with their work every day. I’m just saying that I’m here to help you learn a certain amount of things every day. Once everyone learns them, we’re done. We can go outside; you can hang out. You can fall asleep under a tree for all I care. Some of my students like to goof around. Last year, we all silently snuck around the school and pretended to be ninjas. It freaked everyone out. Anyway, the point is that once we’re done, we’re done.

Allow your students to come up with what they want to do if and when everyone in the room is done with their Nows. Accept any ideas that do not cause problems and that allow you to monitor all of your students at all times. Keep in mind that “closing down school” may never happen all year long, and that is OK. Even the possibility of this outcome can have tremendous benefits. Students being able to shut down their classrooms with their hard work reinforces positive behaviors in a profound way.

**Prekindergarten–First Grade Differentiation**

Although all of the aforementioned elements of Real-World Workshop also apply to grades preK–1, a few modifications are necessary. The most obvious is that you may have to accommodate for nonreaders. One way to make this accommodation is to draw pictures of Nows and Laters instead of writing them, when possible. Another difference is to have fewer Nows and Laters, especially at first, and especially in preK and kindergarten. All grades preK–1st should start out with no more than one Now and one Later, with 1st grade possibly being an exception if the extra Later is “Read.” Therefore, on Day 1, your preK or kindergarten Nows and Laters Board might show just two symbols. Under Nows, there could be an icon of a paint palette indicating fingerpainting. Under Laters, there would be a picture of a book, indicating independent reading.

For 1st grade, the Nows and Laters Board might look like this:

Nows  
Math book, page 8, #1–6  

Laters  
Play apple counting game  
Read