186 The Classroom Behavior Manual

she made this decision the morning we returned from break. I was informed that Michael would be in my class for the remainder of the school year just five minutes before the start of the first school day of the second trimester.

This was less than optimal, as my classroom during my second year of teaching was already a mess of a place. Chaos reigned. A vast majority of my students came from homes in crisis, and they ran the room. No amount of yelling and attempts at bossing students around had done anything but cause more chaos. As rough as most of my students were, I knew that Michael was on another level. Of course, I knew all about the attack. I knew that Michael lived a traumatic existence at home. I knew all about how both of his brothers had killed people.

I also knew that Michael, and students like him who had lives filled with trauma, had brains that had been short-circuited by these traumatic experiences. I knew that they were often hardwired to have problems with attention and making good choices, and that they were more prone to being aggressive or belligerent when faced with challenges and problems. They would perceive and react to threats that weren’t really there.

I also knew that I had 300 seconds to prepare for Michael’s arrival.

As I walked my students (including my new one) from the gym where we congregated every morning for breakfast, I was overwhelmed by just how totally useless all of this knowledge was. I knew that this student’s trauma had turned him into a person who used aggression, belligerence, and potentially homicidal actions to get a feeling of control.

Well, so what? What was I supposed to do about it? Having had no instruction on how to interact with a student like this (or any of my other students, for that matter), I attempted to “manage” Michael with the only two possible strategies I could think of: being really nice to him so as not to anger him, and ignoring his negative behaviors.

As he walked through the classroom doorway, I immediately realized that there would be no “honeymoon period.” In Michael’s first 60 seconds in the classroom, he used belligerent aggression to establish his dominance as the alpha in the environment—and I was powerless to do anything about it. Yelling at me, challenging other students to fight, and grabbing things out of people’s hands all happened in that first minute.

“Just ignore him,” I said to my students and myself, over and over, as he walked around the room destroying school and student property. Ignoring negative behaviors started to seem like an insufficient strategy as the dollar amount of destroyed property started to tally up, and Michael’s yelled questions of “What are you looking at?” intensified to death threats.