260 The Classroom Behavior Manual

punish kids, and I don’t get angry. He has been spending his recesses off and on for the last two weeks taking away the stress that he created by doing work around the classroom for me. This solves the problem of me being stressed out, which I appreciate. I’m sure he is going to mature into someone who stops causing this problem. I just wanted you to know that he’s falling behind the rest of the class in his ability to not cause problems.

I would want to know this as a parent, but there’s nothing that you need to do about it. I’m sorry to take your time, and I know Charlie’s going to get the hang of this!

If it fits in with your or your team’s plans, and if it is convenient for you, this may be a time to ask if it is convenient to arrange for before-school or after-school or weekend DLO time. Many teachers complain of parents not being flexible in this regard. In the context of anger and punishment, this is understandable; most parents do not like to inconvenience themselves so that their child can be angrily punished. Look at the suggested script for communicating with parents above. Would you be amenable to work with a teacher who used the DLO process and explained it that way? Probably. Most parents will gladly agree to the calm teaching of positive behaviors by a kind, loving adult—and to getting an hour of free babysitting to boot!

## Putting It All Together: A Scenario

The following DLO process was used with two high school students who got into a fistfight during the teacher’s fifth period class. They were removed from the school for safety reasons. The DLO took place the next day as an alternative to further out-of-school suspension. This is how the teacher delivered the entire DLO, from start to finish.

Note that such a DLO involves planning, and it should only be done after approval from a principal and all appropriate school administrators, and perhaps even a school lawyer. It may seem like a good deal of work, but implementing this DLO versus punishing students with suspension or expulsion could circumvent the school-to-prison pipeline and be the difference between life and death.

> The teacher is in a seated assertive position as the principal calmly delivers the two high school juniors to the teacher’s classroom. It is 30 minutes before school is to begin.
>
> “Hey, fellas,” the teacher greets them. “It is good to have you back. I was so sad to see you guys punching each other yesterday. I was sad to