194 The Classroom Behavior Manual

**7. Stretch the Classroom.** Although this GGI is a bit more involved, it takes no time because you don’t need to stop teaching to use it. This is used when a student or another educator is answering a question, or speaking to the class for any reason, and a negative behavior that requires a GGI takes place. Without breaking eye contact with the speaker, move so that the line of vision between you and the speaker intersects with the student(s) using the negative behavior. You can be 5 feet or 50 feet from the speaker; it doesn’t matter. Doing this has an almost magical effect in neutralizing the behavior.

**8. Hand on Shoulder.** While hovering and, when appropriate, while continuing to teach, gently place your hand on the shoulder of a student. Again, if the student tries to create eye contact, simply smile or use Eye Interventions #1, #2, or #4. You may want to continue enthusiastically teaching while keeping your hand on a shoulder. (Remember that this is a menu; you don’t need to use all the GGIs. If you are uncomfortable with touching any students or your administration doesn’t want you to touch students, don’t use this one. If you have students who don’t want to be touched, don’t use this with them. Use your best professional judgment!)

**9. Hand on Chair.** If you don’t want to put your hand on a student’s shoulder, you can, instead, put it on the back of their chair. When the chair back of many plastic chairs is pushed down, it will gently bend to push on the student’s back, making them sit up straighter!

**10. Sit at a Student Desk.** This is a fantastic intervention that has many benefits. First, sitting is great. Your legs deserve a break. Second, it allows you to hover around students while using less energy. Third, you have a chance to assume the assertive seated position, which allows you to calmly assert dominance.

To assume the assertive seated position, sit in an empty student chair. If one is not available, pull up your own and place it near students. Lean back. Extend your legs forward with heels on the ground. Cross your legs at the ankles if you like. Put your hands behind your head and interlace your fingers. Sitting in this way at a student desk says to your students, “You all are so easy to handle that I can do it while sitting down and relaxing.”

**11. Point Down.** This is highly effective with students who are not sitting properly in their seats. If a student is kneeling, sitting on an undercurled leg, or sitting on the back of a chair, casually pointing down can be highly effective and minimally intrusive. This GGI can be combined with Confused Eye. Of course, if none of these ways of sitting bother you, there is no reason to use this GGI.