112 The Classroom Behavior Manual

**End of Day Prompter.** Whether you are a prekindergarten teacher or an Advanced Placement English teacher, the end of the school day can be hectic. Not having to remember to tell students that the academic day is over and not having to worry about antisocial behaviors during this time can be the difference between feeling like you had a successful day or an unsuccessful one.

All students, preK-12, should take part in Afternoon Meeting (see Chapter 8) at the end of the day. For students who retrieve their backpacks and get mail, homework, and so on before Afternoon Meeting, use the following prompt:

- “I will dismiss teams whose tables are clean and whose things are ready to go.”

Students who will get their things on their way out the door after Afternoon Meeting merely need to be quiet and have everything put away. In this case, use the following prompt:

- “I will begin Afternoon Meeting when everyone is seated quietly,” or, “Devin will begin Afternoon Meeting when everyone is seated quietly.”

After modeling the End of Day Prompter job for an appropriate number of days, hire a student to take on the responsibility. Do this either during Morning Meeting (elementary) or at the beginning of the last period of the day (middle/high school). So that it makes sense, and so that the student gets ownership of the process, have them change the “I” in the prompt to “we” (e.g., “We will begin Afternoon Meeting when everyone is seated quietly”).

If you find yourself running behind and need a few extra minutes to finish assessing a small group, for example, simply tell your student prompter to wait until slightly later just for that day. For example: “Big Sal, could you wait until 3:02 instead of 3:00 to prompt us to clean up, please?”

**Prompt for Quiet procedure.** This procedure is designed to be used when students will be transitioning to another activity but will remain in place. (If students are going to transition to another location after the prompt, use the Lock-It-In procedure in Chapter 7.)

Trying to get students to be quiet is one of the most common problems in schools. Teachers often have nightmares about their futile efforts to “make” their students be quiet so they can teach. Using this procedure means you will no longer need to struggle to have silent students and will enjoy more pleasant dreams.

Telling students to be quiet is a common mistake. You cannot make students be quiet, and when told to be quiet, difficult students will often endeavor to prove that point. Instead of telling students to be quiet, you can tell them when you will go on