244 The Classroom Behavior Manual

If you get students each fall from teachers who have not read this book, you are likely to get an entire roster full of students who don’t comprehend DLO inevitability. This will cause a bit of stress in that, no matter what grade level you teach, you usually will not want to delay for more than 48 hours for the first several weeks, until your students develop this understanding.

## How Do I Decide upon the Amount of Practice or Problem Solving?

There are three issues to consider when deciding upon how much problem solving or practice needs to occur for a DLO:

1. **Developmental appropriateness.** Use your best professional judgment of what constitutes developmentally appropriate problem-solving or practice tasks, but err on the side of the tasks being too challenging. We live in a culture that believes children are weak and incapable. Make the DLOs challenging from the start.

2. **Number of learning failures.** When a student keeps using the same behavior over and over, even after a DLO or multiple DLOs, it does not mean that the DLOs “aren’t working.” It just means that the student has, thus far, failed to learn the proficient use of the behavior. Each time you give another DLO, turn the knob up on the amount of practice or the amount of problem solving, rather than changing tactics.

3. **Whether the DLO-worthy behavior is a “hot button” for you.** Again, put yourself first. If there are certain behaviors that cause you to lose patience particularly quickly (it’s smirking and whining for me), you need to train students to not use those behaviors, and you need to do this quickly. Simply use bigger DLOs for these types of behaviors than you do for your non-hot-button behaviors.

## When Do I Schedule the Delivery of a DLO?

The possible times to deliver a DLO are as follows:

- Before school
- Lunch
- Recess
- After school
- On a weekend