206 The Classroom Behavior Manual

## Negative Effects of Sending Students to a Sensory Room

There is no research that shows that sending a student to a sensory room makes future negative behaviors less likely, and there is significant research that the opposite is true. Specifically, sending students to a sensory room in response to negative behaviors creates dysfunction for the following reasons:

- It makes regularly scheduled (and extremely positive) sensory room activities dysfunctional.
- It implies that the teacher feels that the student cannot handle the challenges of life.
- It allows the student to avoid work.
- It creates logistical problems regarding the student going to or being “picked up” by a school staff member.
- It takes an undue amount of control away from the student.
- It makes the student feel rejected.
- It makes the student feel that they are not as good as the other students.
- It rewards students who use negative behaviors to get what they want, as some combination of attention, control, and avoidance is achieved every time a student is sent to the sensory room. This effect can be greatly magnified depending on the amount of attention given in the sensory room and the amount of fun to be had when participating in sensory activities.
- It creates a “negative ripple effect”: other students who want some combination of attention, control, and avoidance will see that one student has gotten these things, so they will use negative behaviors to get these things for themselves.

## The Alternative and Solution

When done properly, Mindfulness Breaks offer all the positives of these two dysfunctional tactics without any of the negatives. In addition, every time they are used, it gives students a feeling of healthy control instead of reinforcing negative behaviors.

## Teaching Mindfulness

Sometime during the first day of class, you should teach some sort of mindfulness activity. Feel free to use any quality instruction, such as teaching deep breathing (in through the nose, out through the mouth) or basic yoga positions (Sun Salutation, Warrior 1, Warrior 2, and Warrior 3 are favorites). Find or create whatever you