8 The Classroom Behavior Manual

The truth is that we were all really good people doing very bad things to students. We had all voluntarily chosen to work in that district, where a very high percentage of our families dealt with high rates of generational poverty and our students experienced much higher than average rates of trauma. We wanted to help the students who needed us the most. Why were we yelling at them all day long? Why were we working ourselves to death in an attempt to scare and intimidate students into submission? Why? Because we did not know what else to do.

This horrifying way of working with students was able to exist in the vacuum caused by not having quality ways to manage behaviors available to us. Cumulatively, it turned the schools that I saw into machines that accidentally reinforced negative, antisocial behaviors. In this vacuum, these schools, through no fault of their own, systematically trained students to get what they wanted (attention, avoidance, or control) through negative behaviors. Of course, this is not the fault of the students, who depend on educators knowing how to manage behaviors. It is also not the fault of the educators, who depend on universities to teach them how to manage behaviors.

As I was working through my master’s degree program, I knew and socialized with teachers who taught in every kind of school with every kind of student. We often discussed a similar trend: the “these kids” phenomenon also enveloped schools that only had a small number of “these kids.” To be fair, students who grow up in generational poverty do tend to have more adverse childhood experiences (ACEs). These traumatic experiences give students a higher chance of having attention problems and a higher tendency toward behaviors that many consider “impulsive,” among a tragically long list of other negative effects (American Academy of Pediatrics, 2014). Many of these behaviors have been reinforced at home, often before the child’s first day of kindergarten. What I noticed (and what I continue to notice now, years later, as a behavioral consultant) in these schools is that many teachers will subscribe to the “these kids” fallacy with students whom they know to have had multiple ACEs: “Johnny is just different, and I need to treat him differently. I need to intimidate Johnny into learning and listening to me.”

The irony is that this reaction to a student being perceived as more difficult is the exact opposite of what Johnny needs, and will be especially ineffective with Johnny because he has experienced more trauma than the average student. Students who have had several ACEs, no matter how much money their parents make or what color they are, need to have measures taken to make them feel more safe and less threatened, not less safe and more threatened.

The use of intimidation and fear as a means of getting students to be cooperative works the least with “these kids,” the ones who are in most need. This is yet another