Part I: Relationship-Building Strategies 41

stress we are under. The truth is that teaching, even under the best of circumstances, is stressful.

Looking back now, I can see that the truth in Mrs. Johnson’s class was that she had had no training in behavior management and had taught for a very long time without encountering students as challenging as we were. That particular year, she had the unprecedented challenge of dealing with multiple extremely difficult students. Her understandable stress manifested itself in poor teaching, constant frustration, yelling, and some evil, horrible teacher behaviors. The fact that four students were expelled from our class the next year bore witness to our status as a class that tore through our school like a wrecking ball.

Without the support of specific and explicitly taught strategies for staying calm and encouraging positive behaviors when dealing with difficult students, the job of a teacher becomes impossible to do effectively. Traditional behavior management makes these behaviors worse, compounding the problem. When teachers attempt to do the impossible, in a high-stress situation, without the knowledge of strategies and procedures to make behaviors better instead of worse, they become capable of doing great evil, as Mrs. Johnson did. And as I did.

Staying calm is the result of the effective use of a specific strategy. You will learn it in this section of the book. Encouraging positive behaviors is a strategy, and you will learn how to do that, too. Being able to bond with students and guide them to act the way you want them to act is not something that results from simply “being a good person.” You have to master the following specific strategies in order to build the relationships you need so that you can act like the teacher you want to be.