70 The Classroom Behavior Manual

earlier that morning. I had had no other interaction with him. Travis got one last kick in before muttering something under his breath and slowly joining the line.

The second Rockette, Ronika, had been in my 1st grade class the year before. I had looked her in the eye, smiled, shaken her hand or hugged her, and said her name hundreds of times. Her class team had been the Bulldogs. I had given her a personal nickname: Sparkles. She was an excellent writer, and I had told her so emphatically. We had built a fantastic relationship the year before. Ronika immediately stopped kicking and looked as if a tragedy had occurred as she walked quickly to the line.

The third culprit was Jason. Jason had also been in my class the prior year. I had built a strong relationship with him the same way I had with Ronika. In fact, just two months before the start of the school year, he had been the ring bearer in my wedding. We were buds. After my tiny intervention, the blood drained out of Jason’s face, and he rushed to get into line as well.

Travis looked at Jason like he was crazy.

Ten minutes later, Jason’s teacher called my office and requested that I come to her room. When I walked through her door, I saw Jason in the corner, sitting on the floor crying as hard as I have ever seen a child cry. Believe it or not, Jason was a tough kid. But there he was, losing it in a puddle of tears on the first day of 2nd grade. To be clear, I had not yelled. I had just said, “Guys?” as loudly as was necessary for the trio of kickers to hear me. Yet here we were. I ended up taking Jason to my office and giving him a cot where he could lie down. I felt terrible that I had upset Jason so profoundly. It was not my intention.

With that one intervention, I elicited three totally different results, related to the depths of my relationships with the students.

Most people do not take care of things they do not feel ownership over. Students must feel ownership of their classrooms in order to take care of that space, one another, and you, the teacher. Students’ relationships with their teachers are inexorably linked with their relationships to their classrooms. A student who feels like a visitor in a classroom is less likely to cherish and take care of that space and the people in it than the student who feels like a citizen of the classroom. Just as any society depends, in part, on its environment to thrive, so too does your classroom. To build strong, effective, positive relationships, you need a class environment that fosters a shared sense of ownership. So how can you guide students to develop that sense of ownership so they will build positive relationships with you and with one another?

Every student who comes through your door has a unique set of expectations, quirks, interests, and goals. Some of those goals will be antithetical to your own. You, as the teacher, have a task to do: your job description says that you must teach all of