154 The Classroom Behavior Manual

gradebook and “overwrite” the dot with a grade later. The dot helps you easily see that the student completed the Now.

4. Trust, pray, and spot check. When you are in a huge hurry, you may want to resort to this once in a long while. This tactic involves allowing students to simply turn in work to a designated place when they are done with it. When and if you have time, you can look through it and hand back work not done to your satisfaction, at least to make sure it isn’t garbage. (Numbers 3 and 4 require the same very low-level demonstration of proficiency.)

In order to facilitate strategies #1-3, call on students who indicate they have completed their Nows by raising their hands and remaining seated. You can either sit at a desk or reading table with your gradebook or walk around with it; a reading table is optimal for interacting with multiple students while checking their work. If you are seated in one spot and are sensitive to noise level, you can set the following limit: “Feel free to stay in line as long as you are silently checking your work.”

If a student who is in line to have their work checked speaks or stops checking their work, use the following script:

Oh, man, [student name], could you please have a seat? Thanks.

The student can then sit down, raise their hand, and wait to be called upon again. This limit should be the same no matter what voice level your students choose with their vote and their behavior choices (which will be discussed further below). I use this silence expectation simply because it is difficult for me to concentrate when several students talk right next to me, even at the appropriate “soft talking” voice level. If this doesn’t bother you, ignore this advice.

## Realistic Differentiation Using the Nows and Laters Board

In most real-life classrooms, traditional work time practices make it extremely difficult to implement quality differentiated instruction, especially in classrooms with wide-ranging ability levels. Real-World Workshop makes it possible and, in some cases easy, to differentiate instruction.

Notice that as each student completes the Now on Day 2 and moves on to the Laters, which are self-directed, you will have fewer and fewer students who are still on their Nows. These students may need help refocusing (see Gentle Guidance Interventions, Chapter 9), or they may need more help academically. Either way, Real-World Workshop creates a more advantageous student-to-teacher ratio for them with every student who completes their Nows. In this way, the students scaffold for themselves simply by not having the proficiency to complete their Nows.