254 The Classroom Behavior Manual

Some educator teams make a schedule for noninstructional times (often before or after school or for several hours on the weekend) in which everyone on the team will take a certain period of time every week. For instance, Mr. Colvin may take every Monday afternoon from 3:00 to 4:00, Mr. Sears may take every Tuesday afternoon from 3:00 to 4:00, and so on. Some educators work with only one or two other educators in a rotating schedule to create these consistent DLO sessions.

During these times, educators can bring their students to their rooms to practice or solve problems. The educators who gave the DLO do any and all communication with home if necessary, and they are there at the beginning of all DLO sessions to give students their instructions or to create the instructions with the students. Once the student knows how they will solve the problem that they caused or knows what behavior to practice, the educator can leave the student with the teacher who is monitoring the DLO session.

If you wish to implement DLOs on the same day as the negative behavior, it is usually best to do it during lunch or recess, as these times will not require parent communication. This is fine. Make sure that, if you use a lunch period, the student always gets lunch and enough time to eat said lunch; never withhold food.

Unless you can find a way to make it convenient for you, don’t put an emphasis on communicating with parents in order to facilitate doing after-school DLOs on the same day as the behavior. You usually won’t have time to arrange it. Besides, implementing the DLO the next day, or even a week later, can create a honeymoon period as the student anticipates the coming consequences.

One final way that educators can coordinate with one another to help with DLOs is by batching them. You will see many of the same negative behaviors from a number of students in your school—for example, being disruptive, repeatedly talking in the hallway, or antagonizing a certain student. When these behaviors occur, it can be helpful for educators to “batch” DLOs. All of the students that antagonized a particular student can go to the same room to destress that student by cleaning and arranging their things for them. All of the hallway talkers can go to a hallway to practice being silent. All of the disruptive students can report to one room to practice sitting silently in class. These DLO sessions can occur on the same day or on successive days, and can happen during any noninstructional time.

It is important to note that when educators put effort into DLOs in the first two months of school, behaviors will become more and more manageable and will result in very few, if any, DLOs once spring rolls around. Do your DLOs in the fall when you have the energy. The goal is to use lots of DLOs early so that you eventually don’t need