230 The Classroom Behavior Manual

This offers the added benefit of stopping other behaviors that you did not even notice and allowing the student in question to save face. At all costs, avoid bringing attention to the student who needs a DLO.

Meet any attempts at argument with your Calm Signal and nothing else. This includes any attempts by the student to find out what the DLO will entail. If you would like, you can answer these questions with a simple “I don’t know yet.”

And then, keep teaching.

Do not make any reference to the negative behavior or the upcoming DLO. It’s over. Move on. Any more attention than what is described here reinforces the negative behavior, takes time that you don’t have, and tells your students that behavior is more important than learning.

## Differentiating for Extremely Explosive Students

Your explosive students are almost always students who have often gotten what they wanted with explosive, belligerent behavior. Some may have a biological or pathological propensity toward being explosive. Even though you will minimize the potential for explosions by using this process as instructed, and maximize the chances that the mere use of your DLO Delaying Script will stop the behavior once students know that the DLO is inevitable, some students will try the same belligerent behaviors. This means that being trained not to use these behaviors is even more important. For the most explosive students, some differentiation may be necessary.

When a particularly difficult student needs a DLO, take a long, slow inhale. Next, the use of an extra and immediate Calm Signal is mandatory when working with extremely difficult students. Once you’ve used the inhale and Calm Signal, move away from the student. Attend to something else. Help another student. Keep teaching. Then, very, very, slowly, walk toward the student. Inhale deeply. Reapply your whispered Calm Signal with sadness and empathy in your voice. Whisper the rest of your script. Follow the rest of the suggested protocols, including walking away and moving on.

## Differentiating for the Most Explosive Students

For the most belligerent and out-of-control students, there are two additional strategies to implement. After the first use of your Calm Signal and before the second, whisper the following while smiling broadly or while looking calm, sad, or even silly:

> Psst. [Student name/nickname here.] Look at my face. Do I look mad?

Be ready for the student to say yes. If so, use your Calm Signal and respond, “I’m not.” A silly look can be helpful. Then, whether or not the student becomes explosive, use