126 The Classroom Behavior Manual

When and if it is appropriate, and if it is acceptable to your administration, you should have an Attendance Keeper on staff in your classroom. Doing the job correctly, and thus keeping the job, involves remembering to take attendance, taking it with 100 percent accuracy, and, if necessary, walking the attendance report to the office.

## Class Greeter/Executive Assistant

One of the best ways to delegate important authority to your students is by hiring a Class Greeter/Executive Assistant. This student will be in charge of greeting visitors to the classroom and often answering questions for the guests. Younger students tend to merely greet visitors using the script below. The older and more mature students are, the more they should assume the role of an Executive Assistant: taking messages, grading, collecting work, and managing any number of tasks. Most high school students can do the job of a student teacher and should be allowed to do all appropriate tasks that can be done by a student.

Especially with older students, use your best professional judgment in hiring and managing this job. Only hire students who can realistically do what you ask of them and proficiently complete their own schoolwork. Do not stop these students from doing enriching activities just so they can assist you. If you do give this job to a student who is not as academically inclined, you should pull back on the job expectations so that the student is being enriched academically while also being able to gain the sense of efficacy that this job can afford.

It is important to note that, even in preK, this is not a cutesy, figurehead job that is merely designed for visitors to think, “Oh, how adorable!” when a 4-year-old greets them. On the contrary, this job is designed to give you more time to teach while affording you the status that you deserve. Teachers are the most important people in any school or school district, and they should be treated as such. No one, including principals, superintendents, mayors, governors, or presidents of the United States should be allowed to walk into your classroom and interrupt your instruction. You and what you are doing are too important for that. Your Class Greeter/Executive Assistant will be trained not only to greet visitors to the classroom with a script, but also to answer questions and help the visitor in any ways possible, according to their developmental level. You are the executive of the classroom; the students are the managers.