Gentle Guidance Interventions 191

The outcomes of this choice are both bad, and they destroy classroom environments over time. The two choices are as follows:

1. The teacher can ignore the behavior
   or
2. The teacher can make a declarative statement that the behavior should stop.

### The Problem with Ignoring

When a student uses a somewhat disruptive behavior—playfully poking a friend under a desk, for example—and the teacher ignores the behavior, the message is communicated that the teacher either is unaware of the behavior or tacitly approves of it. Either way, the behavior is reinforced and will be more likely to be used by that student and by all other students who see the behavior being ignored. Students will react in various ways to this ignoring. Some will be only slightly more likely to mimic this playful but negative behavior. Some will immediately mimic, heighten, and explore this behavior: poking softly becomes poking hard, and poking hard may become grabbing hard and hurting people. Negative behaviors that get ignored tend to spread and get worse.

### The Problem with Declarative Statements

The other traditional, “commonsense” option is to make a simple statement declaring that the behavior should stop. It seems innocent enough. After all, if you want someone to stop doing something, it makes sense to tell them to stop doing it. For some students, this can, at first glance, appear to be successful.

The problem, however, is a pesky reality about human beings called “psychological reactance.” This phenomenon occurs when an “unpleasant motivational arousal emerges when people experience a threat to or loss of their freedom” (Brehm & Brehm, 1981, p. x; emphasis mine). These people will then work to get back freedoms that they perceive were taken away. In other words, people don’t like to be told what to do, and when told what to do, they don’t react well, often doing the opposite of what was asked of them.

Therefore, telling individuals or entire classrooms full of students what to do in a declarative way is not an effective means of getting cooperation. It ignores the reality presented by psychological reactance. When a demand is made through a declarative statement (“sit down,” “work,” or “get in line”), even students who are generally cooperative will eventually become resistant in passive, reactive, or even overtly aggressive ways.