214 The Classroom Behavior Manual

Again, it is important to recognize the use of Mindfulness Breaks as a gentle intervention, not as a punishment and not as something to do when all other hope is lost. It is important to recommit yourself to the idea that not all students can be in the learning environment at all times and that this is not their fault. When they are unable to be in the learning environment, they must be able to take control in a healthy way by being able to go to a low-stimulation location and take as much time as they need to regulate themselves so they can re-enter the learning environment. Keep in mind that Mindfulness Breaks are to be used in the context of the rest of this manual. The Real-World Workshop procedure, for example, makes using Mindfulness Breaks to avoid work a nonfunctional behavior for students. This knowledge will help you to make the necessary paradigm shift, because it further helps you convince students that negative behaviors are nonfunctional.

The Mindfulness Break Interventions (MBIs) below are once again in menu form—this time, a menu within a menu. Just as with the greater GGI menu, they go from least intrusive to most intrusive, and from least time-consuming to most time-consuming. Again, ignore the ones you don’t like. Use your favorites over and over. Experiment.

Keep in mind that you should usually use multiple other GGIs from the GGI menu in Chapter 9 before you use Mindfulness Breaks. After all, most agitation builds relatively slowly over time. However, students may sometimes show up to your fourth period calculus class, or your 3rd grade room in the morning, or your kindergarten room after recess in a mental state that immediately requires a Mindfulness Break. Or something particularly upsetting may happen, all of a sudden, in your classroom. A fantastic “gateway intervention” to a Mindfulness Break for a student who has become locked into their brain stem is GGI #36: simply asking, “Are you OK?” After all, what else would a nice person say to someone in distress?

# The Interventions

There are six Mindfulness Break Interventions (MBIs). The first four are Choice Interventions, and the final two are Directive Interventions, though one of the Directive Interventions also involves a choice. All verbal parts of these interventions should be whispered whenever possible.

## Choice MBIs

1. **Confused Eye/Point/Mindfulness Break.** The first, and therefore least intrusive, intervention is perhaps the most effective, in that it builds relationships