28 The Classroom Behavior Manual

# Creating Teams

If you don’t organize your students into teams before the year starts, you are missing a golden opportunity for them to build ownership, teamwork, and functionality in the classroom. Set aside some time to work on this before the start of the year. It may take a couple of hours, but it will be time well spent that saves time later.

## Why teams?

- Belonging to smaller team units (compared to the larger classroom) gives students a greater sense of ownership and provides for more group accountability.
- Creating and correctly using teams allows you to more easily manage the classroom while also enabling students to more effectively self-manage.
- Team interaction provides students more real-life opportunities for struggle and growth (more on that throughout the book).

The teams you create will sit together all year long. Although the entire team can be moved to a different location, individual students will not be moved to another team for any reason (see Chapter 5).

The following is a specific process that you can apply to any grade level to create balanced, functional teams. Whenever possible, have teams created before the first day of school; however, for middle and high school classes, you might want to wait until the second week. This will let you get a handle on individual students’ behavior levels and give you more time to prepare, since you will have several different classes with many students.

So what does the process for creating teams look like?

1. Determine the number of teams that you will have based on the total number of students. For our purposes, I will use a roster of 25 students. I will create five teams and assign five different academic and behavioral rankings. You want to keep the groups small—no fewer than four students and no more than six. A class of 24 students might have six teams of four, while a class of 26 might have four teams of five students and one with six.

2. Obtain two colors of large note or index cards. I work with orange and blue. Write the name of each female student on the first color card and the name of each male student on the second color card. (These cards are designed to make it easier for you to access information and arrange your students; they do not reflect gender-fluid or transgender identifications. Feel free to use any colors you like.)