Delayed Learning Opportunities 259

students should be in pain if they do something they shouldn’t do. If this happens to you, let that feeling go! Students may or may not feel that a DLO is painful or boring, or that they would rather be doing something else, or they may not. The pain is not the point: the learning is the point!

If students are enjoying themselves, use the circumstances to further build relationships with them. For example, if you have a student who purposely broke pencil leads sharpen 30 pencils for you, and she mentions that she loves sharpening pencils, tell her that you are happy to hear that and that you have hundreds of pencils that she could sharpen during noninstructional time. If she agrees, great! You will get lots of pencils sharpened. Make a huge deal about it when she is done. Shake her hand and go on and on about how helpful she’s been! If she declines the offer, it is highly likely that she was just trying to manipulate you by implying that she is not affected by this DLO, and you have called her bluff in a kind, calm way. Either way, you have handled the situation with calm empathy.

## How and When Do I Communicate with Parents About DLOs?

Because we are teaching instead of punishing, and because parent communication is an extra thing that takes time and energy, parent communication about DLOs should be kept to a minimum. Treat DLOs as the learning situation that they are. You would not need to tell parents about every single struggle their child is having with trigonometry, and you should not (and could not) tell parents about every struggle their student is having with walking through the hallway silently. For reasons that have already been discussed, students should be able to participate in multiple DLOs without notifying parents.

Parents should be notified about learning regarding their children’s behavior for the same reasons that parents should be notified regarding their children’s learning of academics: when they are beginning to fall behind the rest of the class in a significant way. This should be done in a way that does not ask the parent for help but is merely informative:

> Hi, Mr. Kiely. It’s Mr. Jones from school. I pet your dog two weeks ago in your front yard. I want you to know that I’m not going to make this a problem for you, and I don’t need you to do anything, but Charlie has really been stressing me out by talking to his friends while I’m trying to teach. I get stressed out because it’s my job to teach my students, and I just can’t when he’s talking while I’m teaching. As you know, I don’t