A Dramatic Proposition 11

figure out how to do it, and that I asked a lot of questions about that while suffering through the worst two years of my life.

Here are a couple of other things to know about me that may also discourage you from continuing to read this book:

* I am not patient, and I have a bad temper. This may seem like a strange thing for an author to admit in a book that is supposed to teach teachers how to be nice to students.
* I was not a “good teacher.” My lesson plans were weak. I couldn’t write student learning objectives (SLOs) or reading improvement monitoring plans (RIMPs) to save my life, and I couldn’t map out curricula. I was disorganized, forgetful, and unable to effectively enter grades into the database on time, monitor progress, or be a good school employee in general.

But here is why you should keep reading: I look at life through a certain kind of lens. I respond to problems by thinking, “This is terrible; I have to make it better.” This comes from my innate hardwiring. I was born this way. It’s who I am, and it is very annoying to be around—or at least, that’s what my wife keeps telling me.

The benefit for you, the reader, is that every single day of my teaching career, I have thought, “This is terrible; I have to make it better” while looking at every aspect of my teaching. The reason I was so hopelessly bad at the aforementioned activities was because I knew that there was no way I could even begin to teach until I could get students to be cooperative and hard-working, let alone have the time and mental bandwidth to be able to do the mountains of work that educators have to do. I knew, almost instinctively, that I couldn’t come close to being able to do everything I needed to do to be a “good teacher” if I couldn’t create a positive classroom environment where my students could learn, I could teach, and students would consistently use positive behaviors.

With every day, no matter how successful I was, I thought, just like during the initial dark days, “This is terrible; I have to make it better.”

So I did. Every day, I would work at making something that would improve the situation: effective strategies and procedures for building relationships, sharing control, and holding students accountable. And every day, I reviewed what I had made and thought, “This is terrible; I have to make it better,” and so those strategies and procedures became more tested, durable, and effective every time I used them.

As a result, I became better than any teacher I had yet seen at building relationships, sharing control, and holding students accountable. I went from relying on prayer as a behavior management tool (“Please, God, don’t let Angela be in my class