Relationship-Building Procedures 79

tags can be made however you would like, but make sure you have materials (e.g., colored sentence strip paper for each team color) ready for students to use. Encourage each team to incorporate their team nickname and team color in their tags, and allow students to make as many tags as they would like, working cooperatively. How and when tags are used is entirely up to the teacher. They can be attached to the team desks or table; put on team bins, shelves, and lockers; or hung above team areas. Using team tags helps build students’ sense of ownership and helps team members start building relationships with one another.  

7. Allow the procedure to motivate struggling teams. Some teams will have a harder time working together and agreeing on names than others. They will need more motivation. Please note that “motivation” does not mean warnings, threats, or reminders. Instead, when you feel that your students have had ample time to come up with a team nickname, reveal your Mystery Later. Erase the question mark and write something appealing like “recess,” “relax outside,” or “play in gym,” depending on what’s feasible given the weather, the school, and the schedule. At this point, relocate your students outside or wherever the fun activity will take place. Teams who have completed their “Now” can enjoy themselves or just take a break. Teams who have not yet unanimously chosen a nickname must sit together, where they will either succeed or fail at agreeing upon a nickname. Either way, their success or failure is their problem—not yours. (If you have more than one adult in your room, teams that are still working can stay in the classroom with the adult.) You are likely to see more motivation from students to finish their Now once the Mystery Later is revealed. When these teams have unanimously agreed on their nickname, allow them to join the fun.  

8. Hold firm. If a team is unable to agree on a team nickname before the class must move on to other work, keep that Now on the board the next time you have a Real-World Workshop (see sidebar). That team will still need to complete that “Now” in addition to the other “Nows” that will be assigned at that time.  

## Tying in the Real-World Workshop  

This chapter is dedicated to Relationship-Building Procedures; however, keep in mind that you will also be introducing and using Control-Sharing