16 The Classroom Behavior Manual

had used. I thought about how such tactics had nearly destroyed me. Then, I observed the peaceful, calm environment that I now got to enjoy every day.

The kids hadn’t changed. The students with whom I was working were probably even more difficult than the student whose desk I had thrown, so many years before. But I had changed.

I knew what I was doing.

Now, instead of counting down the minutes until the end of the school day like I did during my early years in the classroom, I spent time with my students outside school. I took them to basketball games. I had them dropped off at my house at 5 o’clock in the morning when their parents couldn’t arrange other transportation. Each year, I took my class on a field trip to Ohio University, located two hours away.

Now, instead of counting down the days until the end of the year, I cried every June at the thought that I wouldn’t be seeing my students again until August—and often, never again. On the last day of school each year, my students huddled in the middle of our classroom with their arms around one another’s shoulders. In the middle of the circle, I knelt on the floor and tearfully expressed what I felt about their potential, how much I loved them, and how I would always remember them. Big, tough kids cried with me.

That day, relaxing in my desk chair, I thought about how grateful I was to have saved my career—to have saved my soul—by learning how to work with kids, no matter how difficult they were.

It sounds like a Hollywood movie, but it isn’t. In movies, teachers have near-magical powers whereby caring is enough. Just by caring about kids, they transform their lives. The caring spills forth in a montage of well-written lines and heart-wrenching scenes—none of which address a single effective way to train students to exhibit positive behavior. The fairy godteacher somehow just reaches them—by caring, by listening, by connecting, by understanding, by standing up for them, by bending the rules, by shaking some sense into them, by confronting their dangerous realities, by using so-called “tough love,” by POOF! Hollywood magic.

In real life, it doesn’t matter how much you care for kids if you don’t know how to get them to use positive behaviors. It just doesn’t. It’s not that the tens of thousands of teachers who quit every year don’t care about kids. It’s not that they don’t want to be there and do better. They just don’t know what they’re doing. They can’t train students to be people whom they want to be around because they haven’t been trained themselves.

But I had learned how to train students.