102 The Classroom Behavior Manual

While teachers were busy working in their rooms two weeks before the first day of school, I asked Juriah’s former teacher about him. It was amazing how quickly her pale face turned bright red. It reminded me of my frustrations that I had with students during my pre-strategy, pre-procedure days. She angrily ranted about her frustrations with him, saying how wrong and ridiculous the results of Juriah’s assessment were. She suggested that Juriah did not actually belong in school at all; his behaviors were just too extreme and his IQ, regardless of the psychologist’s assessment, was too low for him to attend a regular public school. She called Juriah “retarded.”

Two weeks later, I met Juriah. Kids who terrorize classrooms have a certain look in their eyes on the first day of class: like a lion overlooking the savannah full of gazelles. These kids often use the first day to assess their new classroom situation and decide how they can best do the worst damage. Juriah had that look in his eyes: he had devoured his kindergarten, 1st grade, and 2nd grade teachers. He was sizing me up to see if I was going to be another gazelle that would soon bite the dust.

Immediately upon his arrival in my classroom, I met him with an enthusiastic ESPN Greeting. Juriah began to understand immediately that I was not a gazelle: I was the alpha lion. I intensely focused on the Relationship-Building Strategies and Procedures detailed in Chapters 4 and 5, giving him a feeling of ownership over his classroom and affection for me. Very quickly, Juriah began to actually like me. He later told me that I was the first adult besides his grandmother that he ever liked.

And yet, the Relationship-Building Procedures and Strategies would not have been enough to get Juriah to be a cooperative, prosocial member of our small society. As I suspected from the beginning, and as I confirmed later, Juriah had been abused and neglected throughout his life. He had been threatened and hit. He had been left alone in his home for days. These are just the horrors that I was able to find out about through a home visit and a cursory investigation. Surely, there were worse stories.

Because of these experiences, Juriah had become a high-control need child (HCNC). Because Juriah felt almost constantly out of control due to the beatings and neglect, he saw threats even when there weren’t any, and he continually attempted to get control of any situation and of every person he came across. His brain was always telling him, “Grab all of the control you can right now! We don’t know when we’ll get any more!”

During Juriah’s life at school, his intense need for control manifested itself in predictable acting out: refusing to be cooperative, being disruptive. At school, he was able to get the control that he didn’t have in any other area of his life. The Relationship-Building Procedures and Strategies would allow Juriah to feel less threatened and give him some ownership, and thereby some control, of his environment. But they would