136 The Classroom Behavior Manual

## Single Individual Transition PLO

You should only use a Single Individual Transition PLO in the most extreme cases. If a student has been the only one to be unsuccessful for more than 30 minutes, have the student practice individually. Allowing the student to annoy teammates with their behavior is productive: it is an opportunity for the student to learn that being uncooperative is not going to get positive regard from peers.

## How to Utilize Lock-It-Iners for PLOs

Lock-It-Iners may walk up to teams and use such delicate interventions as “Hey! Be quiet!” Let this go as long as the student is not being abusive or threatening and as long as this fits into your value structure. If the student does become abusive, fire that student and hire another Lock-It-Iner. If you feel that other logical consequences are necessary, have the student do Lock-It-Iner practice later. Otherwise, let the Lock-It-Iner proceed with their own interventions, though it’s a good idea to monitor them. After all, this is a student doing what used to be your job. If necessary, you can intervene by saying the following:

> Oh, man. Looks like this team needs to practice being quiet when prompted. [Turn to Lock-It-Iner.] Would you like to help them to practice later, or do you want me to do it by myself?

Prompt the Lock-It-Iner to only dismiss teams who are being unanimously cooperative. Once the cooperative teams have lined up, or sat on the carpet, or sat in their seats (including the Lock-It-Iner), you can begin the next activity in some small way. If beginning a read-aloud, for example, you could sit down with the book in hand. Upon beginning this instruction, dismiss uncooperative teams. When lining up, make sure you line up uncooperative teams immediately after you have prompted the cooperative teams to leave. If possible, walk out of the room before the uncooperative students cross the threshold while still being able to observe all of the students. These interventions say to uncooperative students, “We love you, we’re not mad at you, your antisocial behaviors don’t work here, and we are moving on without you.”