130 The Classroom Behavior Manual

Second, when ineffective procedures for transitions fail, teachers have an understandable instinct to take increasingly more control away from students. This serves to make a less pleasant environment for all students, but it is absolutely devastating to the HCNCs, who usually then engage in some form of rebellion.

The Lock-It-In procedure prevents students from getting any of the benefits for negative behaviors that traditional transition techniques give students. This is why the Lock-It-In procedure is effective and traditional techniques are not—and why the procedure deserves its own chapter.

## How to Begin Modeling the Lock-It-In Procedure

On the first day of school, immediately before your class makes their first transition from one location to another, say the following. Say it clearly and well, because this will be the only time that you discuss transitions for the rest of the year.

The way you all will be transitioning from desks to the carpet, from the carpet to desks, and from the desks and carpet to the line is going to be different than what you are used to. I am going to do something called “locking it in.” The way that I will do this is to notice which team is the first team to have a silent and clean table and lock it into my brain. Then I will notice which team is second to be silent and clean, and third, and so on. I won’t say anything when I notice these tables. I will wait until everyone is ready. Then I will dismiss the teams in the order in which they were ready. I will do this today, and sometime soon, I will ask one of you to do it. I am going to start locking it in now.

At this point, simply look around at your class using any of the four Eye Interventions (see Chapter 9 for details), probably starting with the Curious Eye and then going to Confused Eye, occasionally to the Crazy Eye, and once in a long while to the Evil Eye. Be very obvious and intentional with these interventions. Keep in mind that you are modeling the proper way to Lock-It-In for students who will start leading this transition shortly.

Feel free to move around the room, maintain proximity, or, rarely, use a question from the Question Matrix (Chapter 9). Keep these interventions very low-level, and don’t use more than a couple outside of Eye Interventions. The reason for this is that the procedure itself has a powerful immediate consequence at the center of it, and there are also delayed consequences in store for students who are