Relationship-Building Procedures 97

- Call on each student to nominate a pose or movement. Again, allow students to donate their nominations if they choose. Hold a second vote in which students vote for their favorites. Students may vote either once or twice. Whichever pose/movement gets the most votes wins. In the case of a tie, erase all nominations besides the top vote-getters, and vote again. As before, you might want to let an attentive student lead and tally the vote. By this point, middle and high school teachers should have next to nothing to do with this process.

7. **Celebrate your students’ work by practicing the Class Pledge together!** Let students know that you will now be reciting your Class Pledge immediately after the Pledge of Allegiance each morning for the rest of the year.

## Sample Class Pledges

Most class constitutions should read like the examples above. How students say the words of a class constitution is what makes it the Class Pledge. Here are some past Class Pledge pose and movement winners from my students:
- Holding hands
- Saluting, hand to forehead
- Covering one eye as if reading an eye chart
- Putting a hand on the shoulder of a neighboring student
- Holding up both hands in a “cat attack” pose (this one came from the Bobcats class; at the end of the pledge, each student swiped down with their “claws” and exclaimed, “Rawr!”)

## ESPN Goodbye

Just as every student should get an ESPN Greeting when they enter their school and classroom, they should get the same treatment when they leave their classroom and/or school. Recall that ESPN stands for meaningful eye contact, genuine smile, safe physical contact, and the student’s name.

### The Procedure

How you deliver the ESPN Goodbye depends on the departure processes and logistics specific to your class and school. Before the start of the school year, spend some time thinking about the best way to ensure that you can deliver an ESPN