Academic Control-Sharing Procedures 139

The Control-Sharing and Relationship-Building elements of the Morning Meeting procedure will successfully encourage most students to cooperate in the successful participation in and maintenance of this procedure. The thoughtfully created structure of this procedure includes logical consequences for those remaining students who are uncooperative. Limits should be set once per year. After that, Gentle Guidance Interventions (see Chapter 9) should be used to gently guide students toward cooperation. In rare cases, consequences not already woven into the procedure can be used; most of these will be delayed.

## Quick Start Activity Guidelines

As soon as your students have participated in the ESPN Greeting, have them put their belongings away and get to work on a Quick Start Activity. This activity must be aligned with standards; it is not playtime. If you do not require students to begin working as soon as they arrive, your class will lose weeks of instruction per year. A Quick Start Activity also gives the implicit message that, first and foremost, school is a place for learning.

Furthermore, the conditions under which students start working on their Quick Start Activity immediately create a relaxed, calm environment to start out each and every school day. Students should be allowed to socialize during this time. If students eat breakfast in the room, they can eat while doing the activity. Again, logical consequences await students who do not finish this activity in time, so students will learn how to concentrate within the context of these freedoms.

If the activity is something that needs be to put out by the teacher, distribute all of the materials (perhaps just papers) to team mailboxes, rather than putting each paper on each student’s desk. If the activity is to be done in journals, write the activities on the board. The activities themselves can vary in content as widely as the preK–12th grade standards vary, so obviously the content will be at your discretion. A Quick Start Activity should meet the following criteria:

- Able to be finished by the end of Morning Meeting.
- Includes a question that must be answered or a task that must be completed.
- Able to be checked by a teacher or student who will make sure it is completed.
- Easily completed (at first). Make sure everyone is able to do the activity, and err on the side of it being too easy. The idea is to get students addicted to the feeling of success first thing in the morning every day. Very gradually, increase the difficulty. Differentiate insofar as it is possible. Allow students to be helped by