Delayed Learning Opportunities 247

For a Problem-Solving DLO, give a choice on how they will distress you, within the parameters that you already set up:

> Feel free to either put the homework papers in the folder one at a time or stack them all up and put them all in a folder at once. Either way is fine.

If the student refuses to choose one way or the other, choose for them. Feel free to give as many choices as you would like; the more, the better. Optimally, it’s best to include at least one choice.

If you have time and are in the mood, you can give the student the opportunity to solve a problem in a way that they wish to solve it, or they can decide exactly what behaviors they need to practice and for how long. The more healthy control you give away, the better. Even when allowing for this higher level of control, make sure that you have your own DLO ready to go if, at any point, you feel that the student is beginning to bargain or the discussion is simply taking too much time.

## How Do I Avoid Arguing with a Student When I Am Giving a DLO?

A student can’t get you to argue with them without your consent. The minimum amount of people it takes to argue is two; just don’t be one of those two people. If a student attempts to argue with you in the middle of your instructions, ignore this attempt and “steamroll” through it as you keep delivering the DLO. If the student continues to try to argue, use your Argument Shield (see pages 45–47). If the attempts at argument become a real problem, say your DLO Delaying script and then ignore the student. Students who have achieved the understanding of inevitability will stop the argument attempts. If they have not, keep in mind that the forthcoming DLO will involve more and more practice or problem solving the more they attempt to argue.

## How Do I Monitor, Scaffold, and Reinforce Positive Behaviors During the Completion of the DLO?

Your first priority when overseeing completion of a DLO is to take care of yourself. If you are working hard to monitor or scaffold a DLO, you are doing it wrong. Monitor while ignoring the student as much as is appropriate (see below). Get work done or eat your lunch or stare off into space—whatever you want to do. Scaffold by using any GGIs that are appropriate, preferably without looking up from what you are doing. As is always true with scaffolding, give as little help (preferably none) as is necessary for the student to be able to be successful in completing the task.

If a student is able to complete a DLO but, in your professional opinion, is choosing not to, allow that student to suffer by having their noninstructional life placed on