48 The Classroom Behavior Manual

# The “Good Kid” Cycle and How to Perpetuate It

The “Good Kid” Cycle works exactly like the “Bad Kid” Cycle. Some of the students in your classroom have found, through experience, that they get the things that they want through using positive behaviors such as being polite and pleasant, solving problems without violence, and working hard. They have learned that they get good grades, special privileges, and academic and athletic success through using positive behaviors. They have also learned, often through considerable experience, that they get loads of attention when they use positive behaviors. That attention, as well as the positive trappings of using positive behavior, helps students develop a habit of positive, prosocial, “good” behaviors. This is the “Good Kid” Cycle.

The adults in the lives of these students have done you a great service: they have set you up for success by training the students to use positive behaviors. Still, in order to perpetuate the “Good Kid” Cycle, we must consciously and systematically use Strategic Noticing to reinforce the positive behaviors that these prosocial students are using to get what they want. Every teacher who has ever worked with difficult students has felt the angst that comes from realizing that they have been giving attention to negative behaviors from antisocial students all day and more or less ignoring the prosocial students. Strategic Noticing solves this dynamic.

## Flipping the “Bad Kid” Cycle

By engaging your Calm Signal and not getting angry, you break the Bad Kid’s habit of using negative behavior to get what they want. This is essential, but it is only half of the equation. By merely not giving the student what they wanted (no tangible “thing” and no anger), you have stopped the negative behavior from being functional. Now, you must systematically reinforce positive behaviors.

You should systematically give properly communicated attention to all of your students by noticing them only when they are using positive behaviors! Keep in mind that none of this means that kids who have been conditioned to use negative behaviors will just cease and desist using negative behaviors right away. After all, those behaviors have been getting them what they want for a long time! But when you notice the positive behaviors of their classmates, you are providing a simple instruction booklet for how to get attention in your classroom. They will receive this instruction booklet on the first day that you start using these strategies, and sometime after that, they will use it.

The way you perpetuate the “Good Kid” Cycle will be the exact same way that you flip the “Bad Kid” Cycle, and you will do both simultaneously and without having to