78 The Classroom Behavior Manual

**Nows**  
Unanimously decide on a team nickname  

**Laters**  
Create team tags  
Read  
?  

2. Introduce teams and colors. Let students know that they are permanently assigned to their teams and their seats. Point out that each team has been assigned a color and that many of their materials have been color-coded accordingly.  

3. Introduce the Team Nicknames concept. Explain that each team will select a team nickname. Tell students that their nicknames can be any appropriate name that is not the same as the class name or the school mascot. (If needed, apply the same borderline appropriate name practices that you used when choosing the class name.) Let students know that when their team has agreed on a name, it will be their moniker for the entire year. Add that teams must reach a unanimous decision.  

4. Point out the Nows and Laters Board. Explain how the board works: first, students must complete the items under “Nows”; then, they can move onto the items under “Laters.” Point out that, in this case, they have one item listed under Nows. That means, they must choose a team name. Then, they can move on to their Laters. Emphasize that students must complete the Nows before they can do the Laters. However, when ready, they can choose which Laters they want to do during Real-World Workshop. They do not need to do all the Laters listed; these are options. (Note: The question mark in the figure represents a Mystery Later; more on this below.)  

5. Let teams work. Allow teams to take as much time as needed to choose a name. Completion of this task will be the responsibility of each team, not the teacher. “Unanimously decide on a team nickname” will remain as a Now activity until each team has chosen a name or the school year ends—which-ever happens first. Do not warn or lecture students about the importance of “getting done” with picking a name. This initial team activity is important in establishing that students bear the responsibility for getting their work done.  

6. Greet new teams. When a team agrees unanimously, greet them by their nickname and remind them that they are done with their Nows, so they can move on to their Laters. In this case, students can either read a book or make a team tag. (We’re not ready for the Mystery Later yet. Hang in there.) Team