178 The Classroom Behavior Manual

ready, students can run this part of the day. Secondary teachers should turn this procedure over to students almost immediately. Activities should be fun, generally not academic, and often team-building exercises. Fun exercises at the end of the day make all of Afternoon Meeting more functional because it becomes a motivating situation (MS). When students are in an MS, the natural consequence of losing out on the MS trains them to be cooperative—as long as you allow the natural consequence to befall students without anger or lectures, and as long as you don’t save students from that consequence. Students quickly realize that the faster they get through Afternoon Meeting (and depending on the school and grade level, get their belongings and be ready to leave), the more time they have to take part in the Afternoon Meeting activity. As long as the ceremony and games are fun and developmentally appropriate (so that the students enjoy them at least as much as going home), you can maintain an MS that will, more than any other procedure, create and allow you to maintain a functional end to your school day. You should recognize this same dynamic from Real-World Workshop: the harder students work and the more responsible they are, the better their life becomes, and the better the lives of the people around them become.

Extremely entertaining and compelling activity choices at the end of the day are the engine for a successful Afternoon Meeting: transitions will be more efficient, students will use more positive behaviors, and they will be more likely to hold each other accountable. Just like with Laters and Real-World Workshop, you cannot make students do things, but you can control how compelling, fun, and awesome the Afternoon Meeting activity choices are. These can be games that you know to be favorites of your students, or any other activity that is fun and appropriate. Introduce them one at a time throughout your day as “brain breaks.” Do this multiple times per day during the first two weeks as beta testing to find out which activities and games your students enjoy most. Use their favorites as Afternoon Meeting activities.

Potential games are listed below, but here is a word on activities. One of the three choices you give should be more of an activity; “sit around and talk” is one choice that was usually available at the end of the day for my students. “Pull up (appropriate) videos on the internet” can be another. Even if you know what your students’ favorite activity or game is, you still need to give them a choice every day. Remember, within every choice is a healthy rejection: when a high school senior chooses “sit around and talk” five times in a row while rolling her eyes, she is rejecting on your terms your suggestion of two other games that she might think are stupid and beneath such a cool, mature person such as herself. Make sure you cycle through all games and activities, and don’t have any game or activity available every day.