Transitions: The Lock-It-In Procedure 133

- 3rd: after 9 days of modeling
- 2nd: after 10 days of modeling
- 1st: after 11 days of modeling
- K: after 12 days of modeling

If an unreasonable amount of time elapses without every student in your classroom being silent and ready, or if you see your Lock-It-Iner getting frustrated that a team is not complying, go to the Failure to Get Locked In PLO.

## Natural Consequences of the Lock-It-In Procedure

The natural consequences of being locked in later than others and therefore transitioning later is woven into the procedure. This is highly effective with students in preK–5th grade, who typically want to be the first to do things. After 5th grade, this natural consequence begins to be less effective with every passing year. It is still a great organizational tool, although students new to this procedure will have to learn about proper behavior by relying more on the logical consequences that befall students in the Failure to Get Locked In PLO.

In addition, taking a long time to line up for lunch or specials classes is its own natural consequence. Use this as much as is functional for you and your school. A rule of thumb: as soon as this causes a real problem for someone outside your classroom, it is time to stop allowing this natural consequence to befall your students. This is OK, since the natural consequences are not necessary in training your students. Consider them to be a bonus: when you can use them, great; if you can’t, no problem. In other words, if you are worried that the lunch server is going to slash your tires because your class has been late to lunch every day for a week, it’s time to go beyond the natural consequences of being late to lunch and bring on the PLOs.

## Failure to Transition Correctly PLOs

If students fail to transition correctly, there are simple, immediate consequences that can be used to prompt the expected behaviors. If a student exhibits a negative behavior while transitioning, use your Calm Signal, but then ask the student to go back to their seat:

Oh, man. Could you please take a seat?