150 The Classroom Behavior Manual

lesson, they need to complete the Now that goes with the next lesson, and then double back to the first Now. Just like in life, work that goes unfinished piles up.

While Nows are usually academic, they can also be Behavioral Leadership Classroom ownership or management tasks. For example, your first Now, done on the first day, could be “Choose team name”—hardly academic, but very important. Of course, lessons, Nows included, should be as interesting, stimulating, and compelling as possible.

## Laters

Laters are the activities that students can do once they complete their Nows. These activities should also align with Common Core standards; they are not playtime. With only occasional exceptions, Laters should be academic in nature (or Behavioral Leadership activities) and something that the students already know how to do on their own. At least one should be something that is impossible to completely finish, for example, “Read” or “Play math board games.” This prevents the ever-popular cry of “I’m done! What do I do now?”

Though mostly academic, the Laters should also be fun! As a rule of thumb, every student needs to have at least one academic Later that is extremely appealing. Students need the incentive of seeing that their life will get better when they apply the effort necessary to get done with work (exemplified by the Nows).

Laters can also be tasks that students choose to serve their classroom. This builds ownership of the classroom while making your life easier. If you know you need to have something done and a student can do it, make it a Later. Do your students need to have mail delivered to their mailboxes? Have “Deliver mail” be a Later. If it has to be delivered every day, keep it up as a Later every day! This is an alternative to having Mail Carrier as an assigned and fireable job. Neither way is right or wrong—the only wrong way for mail to be delivered in a classroom is for the teacher to do it!

Worried that students are missing too much class time? No problem. Simply stop putting nonacademic Laters on the board for a while. Concerned that a student keeps picking the same academic Later? Remove it. Varying which Laters are available to students makes each individual Later more reinforcing anyway. Add more and more Laters as the year goes on. There is nothing wrong with having 15 Laters in a 3rd grade Real-World Workshop in November.

While you can’t control whether students do their Nows, you have total control over how appealing, fun, exciting, educational, and wonderful your Laters are. Students who are left alone to decide whether to do their Nows without teacher prodding, lecturing, or warning will eventually start work if the Laters and the Mystery