8

# Academic Control-Sharing Procedures

Teachers are tasked with delivering a tremendous amount of material to students. It may even be unrealistic for a teacher to impart this amount of content to students during the time allotted, especially considering how much teachers are asked to differentiate for abilities and learning styles. This causes stress for the teacher, which may often be transferred to the students. For many classrooms, academic learning time is a time of high anxiety, when teachers hoard control as a natural human defense mechanism: when we feel out of control, we hold on to the control we do have for dear life.

Teachers are often at their worst while trying to deliver instruction and monitor work. While instructing, some teachers hoard control by badgering, lecturing, warning, and threatening students. In addition, it’s not uncommon for teachers to yell and try to intimidate students into doing their work.

The problems with this dynamic are many. First, students are skilled at identifying and trying to avoid stressful situations. They avoid stressful academic situations by using negative behaviors to get out of class, retreating into their own minds (daydreaming), being off task, or doing work half-heartedly. Second, when academic time is the most stressful time of the day, students come to dislike learning and hard work, even if they have an inherent interest in the subject matter.

Ultimately, when students learn to see learning and work as bad things that make them sad and stressed, it has a devastating effect on their effectiveness as people, their chances to become lifelong learners, and their prospects for happiness in

137