210 The Classroom Behavior Manual

combination of those, and come back whenever you are ready. Just make sure you follow our rules, just like always, when you are there.

Any questions?

[Take questions.]

OK. I’m never going to talk about this again. Let’s move on!

Then . . . move on, and don’t ever talk about it again, unless asked—and then only answer the question during noninstructional time.

**Simple, Positive Goals**

The only goals involved with the use of the Mindfulness Breaks procedure are that the learning environment will be maintained and that students will be able to use an environment change to regain their neurological ability to act as a positive, prosocial member of the learning environment—and that they can stay there if they are unable to do so. Mindfulness Breaks systematically share healthy control with students who are struggling to use the necessary behaviors in the learning environment. This is in contrast to the chaos-inducing tactics through which students use negative behaviors to “make it to” the principal’s office and sensory room, respectively—places where they get what they want (attention, control, avoidance, fun squishy objects) through their negative behaviors, making those behaviors more likely.

Mindfulness Breaks avoid giving unhealthy control to students and simultaneously give healthy control under the following conditions:

- They are used before negative behaviors have become too heightened.
- They are used in context of the control-sharing and relationship-building methods in this manual.
- Where Mindfulness Centers are located and how they are utilized does not reinforce negative behaviors by giving students attention, control, avoidance, or squishy fun things.
- Students can use them whenever they need to do so.
- They allow students to return to the learning environment whenever they feel ready.
- They are not punitive and are even used by teachers and staff.

All of this is happening at a time when students are teetering between being able to be prosocial and not being able to be prosocial. It is at this time when students, especially ones who have experienced or are experiencing trauma, are in