Relationship-Building Procedures 87

them that you are bored with the normal way of applauding. Tell students that you are giving them an opportunity to create their own type of applause.

2. Explain the guidelines (not more than once):
   - The Class Applause must involve a physical motion (like clapping does).
   - The Class Applause must involve a sound (produced verbally or manually).
   - The Class Applause must be appropriate for school.

3. Schedule a vote. Let younger students know that you will lead a vote for the new applause after the Afternoon Meeting that day. Tell older students that their vote will take place at the end of class the next school day. Encourage students to talk about possible ideas with one another when they have a chance, such as during lunch or at recess.

4. Collect nominations. At the end of the Afternoon Meeting, tell younger students that you will give them a chance to create their Class Applause when they are all seated silently. Call on each student to nominate an applause. Ask for the name of the applause method, explaining that students will be able to demonstrate the method in a moment, and write the name on the board. As with previous nomination procedures, allow students to donate their nomination to another student. For older students, follow the same procedure, but let them nominate regular clapping as a method, if they choose.

5. Go through the list. Call on each student to demonstrate the proposed applause. Take a vote after all demonstrations have been made, allowing everyone to vote once. (With older students, you might let them design and lead the voting process.)

6. Celebrate the choosing of the Class Applause with the Class Applause!

Regarding older students and clapping: Some middle and high school students might think that a special method of applause is beneath them, because they are the Most Mature People in the Universe. These same students are almost always the ones whom you would otherwise need to cajole to applaud in the traditional way. If you let them nominate and even choose traditional applause over more creative methods, then they will be more likely to actually use traditional applause throughout the year because they had some control over the matter.

Whether younger or older, by creating their own applause, students are creating their own positive, supportive learning environment.