120 The Classroom Behavior Manual

Just as in the procedure explained above, you will give this consequence during a noninstructional time. Bring the student into the room in the same manner: calmly, while smiling and doing some other leisurely activity.

## Individual PLO Script

The Individual PLO script varies only slightly from the one for the whole class or small group. Say the following with sadness and empathy:

> Oh, man. It looks like you are struggling with being quiet when it is time to listen. No worries. I’m not mad at you. When you struggle with something, you need to practice doing it until you are an expert. So now I’m going to give you the chance to practice and become an expert. If you can become an expert today, that’s fine. Otherwise, you will be coming in to practice this every ______ for the rest of the year until you become an expert. That’s fine, too.

> I am going to give you the chance to talk. Just pretend that there are other people here. You don’t have to, though. Then I will give the prompt. If you are completely quiet once I am done saying the prompt, that will count as a successful practice. How many times do you need to practice, seven times or nine times?

If the student chooses a number, accept it as the number of times he or she will have to practice. If the student refuses, pick the greater number for the student.

OK, nine times it is.

The preceding example includes an appropriate choice of times for 3rd grade or above. For preK and kindergarten, one or two practices is appropriate. For 1st and 2nd grade, three or four practices is best.

Now you can begin the practice session. Say the following:

> Now, I may try to trick you by saying my prompt very quickly or very quietly. OK, you can talk now if you want.

You can wait however long you want to—usually between 5 and 30 seconds—before you say the prompt. Vary the amount of time before you give the prompt. Start with a louder, slower prompt, and make the prompt quieter and faster as you go on. Mentally prepare yourself for the possibility that the student will be uncooperative, as those practices have gotten them what they wanted in the past. Embrace the opportunity for them to learn the opposite.