176 The Classroom Behavior Manual

## Team Captain Responsibilities

Each team captain’s Afternoon Meeting responsibilities may include the following:

- Wiping down all team desks or tables and all team areas with a bleach wipe
- Delivering mail from mailboxes to student desks
- Anything else that is specifically for the benefit of each team that can be done by a student

Again, if teachers stay away from the inner workings of the teams, it is rare that team captains will refuse to do their duties. If they do start refusing during Afternoon Meeting, instruct the next student in line for team captain duties to take over for the rest of the day and continue as team captain the next day.

## Student Responsibilities

Students should be responsible for organizing their own materials and having them ready to go on their desks. All mail should be put away in folders. Students should be seated silently. At this point, classes that gather their belongings on their way to be dismissed and do not go to a carpet for Afternoon Meeting are ready for Afternoon Meeting. Students who gather their belongings before Afternoon Meeting should be dismissed using the Lock-It-In procedure (see Chapter 7). If they are to go to a carpet, that is where they go. If they are to go to their desks, they go to their desks.

## Celebrations

When students have completed their responsibilities, the TOD team captain stands up, goes to the front of the room next to the Celebrations Board, and says the following:

> I will start Celebrations when everyone is seated silently.

This is a good time for the teacher to sit among the students and use Gentle Guidance Interventions (Chapter 9). If students are not quiet after a reasonable amount of time, consider a Delayed Learning Opportunity.

The TOD team captain then chooses students who wish to celebrate their classmates, teachers, administrators, or anyone in their lives for living up to words that are used as part of their class’s character education program. Once the Celebrations have all been read or the teacher notices that the class is running out of time, the TOD team captain reviews the day’s schedule.