168 The Classroom Behavior Manual

notice and use the proper voice level in class. This is often difficult at first for students for whom loud voice levels are common in their homes.

After a period of time, whisper the following to the students with their heads down:

[Elementary] Do you hear our [voice level]? [Pull on your earlobe.]

[Secondary] Retuned. [Tap student on the shoulder.]

After any affirmative response from your elementary students, return an affirmative response indicating that they can get back to work. After this procedure has been in place for a few weeks, you can merely say the student’s name and pull on your earlobe with a quizzical expression, get an affirmative, and give one back, and the student can get back to working with only the student’s name being uttered. For secondary students, just assume intelligence and walk away.

Proper head-down position involves the student’s eyes not being able to be seen by anyone and their head being fully above the desk or table. If a student fails at this, simply say the following:

> Oh, man. Looks like you need to practice putting your head down the right way. You can either practice now by doing it perfectly, or you can practice later. Either way is fine.

If the student puts their head down properly while tuning their ear to the voice level, no further action needs to be taken besides spending more time, right then, with their head down. Students who continue to not put their head down correctly will practice doing so later, during noninstructional time. For more details on how to do this, see Delayed Learning Opportunities in Chapter 11.

If one to three students do this repeatedly, simply repeat the procedure, giving them more head-down time each time to tune their ears to the proper voice level.

**Whole-Class Voice Demotion PLO.** Remember that, when developmentally appropriate and properly monitored, older students will be administering this PLO. For the purposes of this manual, the directions below indicate that you will be doing this as the teacher. Just keep in mind that, when appropriate, a student could be administering the PLO. Utilizing students for these PLOs is optional. If you don’t think your students are up for it, or you think this might cause more problems than it solves, don’t do it.

To review, the possible voice levels are, in order, the following:

1. Soft talking
2. Whispering
3. Silent