A Dramatic Proposition 13

the school-to-prison pipeline will continue unabated. Without behavioral leader-
ship, students will be spending their days in classrooms that are not as healthy, safe,
engaged, supporting, and challenging as they could be. Without behavioral leader-
ship, equal access to education will continue to be impossible. We will continue to use
unsophisticated and hurtful behavior management strategies that trigger students
with high ACE scores into using negative behaviors that will disrupt learning and
lead to suspensions and expulsions. Entrance into the school-to-prison pipeline will
continue to be the result.

It is not enough to disrupt the school-to-prison pipeline; it must be destroyed.
It is not enough that some students have access to behavioral leadership educators.
All students in all schools deserve access to classrooms where the educators know
exactly how to build relationships, share control, and hold students accountable for
their actions and inactions without anger or haste. Educators who are trained in
behavioral leadership can create classrooms where students feel safe and loved, and
experience the healthy control they need to be able to function and learn. In these
classrooms, students can learn the behaviors and habits necessary to be successful
and happy in life.

We can’t control or know everything about what happens in the lives of our
students when they are not at school. We don’t even know what will happen to them
after they leave us in the afternoon and before we see them again the next morning.
Therefore, we should treat all of our students as if, during that time, they were abused
or neglected. Why? Because some of them were. We should treat all students, every
day, with the care and love necessary to make sure their school days are as calm,
engaging, and educational as they possibly can be.

Did you figure out the trick of behavioral leadership? While behavior manage-
ment fails all kids—and fails “these kids” more than anyone—behavioral leadership
is not only effective with “these kids”; it is effective with all kids! All kids benefit from
a calm, kind teacher who builds relationships, shares control, and teaches positive
behaviors.

All students—no matter who they are, what has happened to them in their lives,
or what they experienced that morning—if treated this way, every day, will feel safe
enough, cared for enough, and loved enough to be ready to learn and thrive while
they are in your classroom.

All students belong. All students can succeed. The book you are holding is the
manual for how to do this.

Let’s get started.