12 The Classroom Behavior Manual

next year”) to actually requesting that all of my grade’s most difficult students be put
on my roster. I was asking for “these kids” be put in my class. Over the decade that
I used these strategies and procedures, I did not have to appeal to an administrator
for discipline one single time. Not one office referral. Not one suspension. Not one
expulsion. The school-to-prison pipeline encountered a serious disruption when it
attempted to run through Mr. Ervin’s classroom.

As my procedures and strategies became more and more effective, and I became
more and more fluent in my use of them, I noticed something amazing: not only did
my students use positive behaviors at an incredibly high level, but they were also
learning! Both my behavioral and academic outcomes were excellent! Even though
I was and remain naturally bad at all of the elements of teaching, like writing lesson
plans and learning goals, I was able to pay more attention to them because I was no
longer drowning in a sea of negative behaviors!

I now have the honor of traveling the country teaching educators these strate-
gies and procedures. I get to hear how the use of these procedures and strategies has
saved educators’ careers. I get to coach teachers in their classrooms and show them
how, the more effectively they use their strategies and procedures, the fewer negative
behaviors they have. I get to save educators from having to endure experiences like
my first two years of teaching, asking but never getting the necessary means to do
my job.

I get to tell them what I learned: that behavior management is impossible. It
implies that you can manage behaviors that are out of control (you can’t). What is
possible is behavioral leadership: the ability, through systematic use of strategy and
procedural instruction, to change negative behaviors while simultaneously managing
all behaviors. A leader creates function and oversees the management of it.

A leader must be able to model the behaviors they want to see in the people
around them. Without behavioral leadership, it is difficult or impossible to act like
the person you want your students to emulate, because you will have to deal with
so many negative behaviors that you will not be calm enough to model the positive
behaviors you want your students to use. Behavioral leadership allows educators to
be the leaders that their students need them to be.

This is why behavioral leadership is a foundational necessity for successful class-
rooms and instruction. Without behavioral leadership, you can’t come close to doing
everything you need to do and being the person you need to be in order to be the most
effective educator you can be for your students.

Without behavioral leadership, students won’t be able to efficiently and suffi-
ciently learn positive behaviors and responsibility. Without behavioral leadership,