Delayed Learning Opportunities 225

1. Solving a problem that they caused.
2. Practicing the positive behavior with which they are struggling.

These will be explored in detail later in this chapter.

Being engaged in these learning opportunities may be unpleasant. In life, learn- ing difficult lessons about how to act can involve suffering. The suffering, though, is not the intention, as it is when using punishment. Any suffering that might be incurred by students during DLOs is incidental. While this incidental suffering may reinforce the lesson, it is not the point of the lesson. Learning is the point of the lesson.

Picture a high school basketball coach who is having guards practice coming across a screen and catching the ball in triple threat position while squared to the basket. Everyone does a proficient job except for one player, who does it all wrong. In response, the coach blows the whistle and loudly informs the player that they did the drill wrong and that the player needs to run from baseline to baseline 50 times immediately, while everyone else continues with the drill.

This is an example of a punishment. The coach’s intent is to arbitrarily cause pain for the player after a mistake in order to stop the player from making the mistake again. There is no learning involved; this is simply an attempt to get blind obedience through the use of pain—in this case, the pain of lactic acid buildup in the muscles due to a physically demanding activity.

By contrast, using a DLO in the same situation looks like this: When the player makes the mistake, the coach lets the player know that they will be working on that skill later. When others are taking a break or once practice is over, that player practices coming across a screen and catching the ball in triple threat position while squared to the basket over and over again until the skill is perfected. The intention is for the player to learn how to do this effectively. In addition to developing the required muscle memory from repeated practice, the player may experience muscle pain, but that is not the point of the exercise: the point is the learning. While physical pain in classrooms shouldn’t be a part of learning, there can be other kinds of suffering. Students will often be bored while they are practicing positive behaviors. Sometimes students will have to solve problems that they caused in ways that involve some form of suffering, such as experiencing monotony or not being able to do something that they would rather do. This kind of suffering is only incidental to DLOs, for which the learning is the point, not the suffering.