Relationship-Building Procedures 77

administrator nixes the name (but lets you keep your job), you get to go back and tell your students that even though you were cool enough to ask your boss about a name you’re barely allowed to say in school, it got rejected. This, in and of itself, is a great way to build a relationship with your class. Repeat the vote using all other potential names. If another borderline name is picked, repeat the process. The best-case scenario is that your students send you back to your administrator several times. Each time you go to your administrator, you show your students that you will go out of your way for them. It can be a fun bonding experience for you to keep coming back empty-handed. When you or your principal tire of this (whichever comes first), you can just come back to your classroom and tell your students that the principal isn’t as hip as you are and that you need to give up on the borderline names. Then, erase any questionable names and vote on the remaining ones. No matter what happens, you are giving your students ownership of their room and building positive relationships with them.

5. Use the name. Once you have an approved name, congratulations! Your students, especially the most difficult ones, might start thinking differently about this year and their class than they have about previous years and other classes; they may think, “Maybe this year will be different” or “Maybe this is my classroom.” Have students make a large banner or sign (or several) with the class nickname for display in doorways and other prominent places in the classroom. From the moment that the name is decided upon, only refer to your class by their chosen name.

## Team Nicknames

By the first day of school, you have carefully divided your class into teams and your students have voted for a Class Nickname. Now have your students work with their teams to choose a Team Nickname. You should introduce the procedure for creating Team Nicknames with the Control-Sharing Procedure Real-World Workshop (see Chapter 8). However, it is not necessary for you or your students to understand all the ins and outs of the procedure on the first day of school. Again, for our hypothetical classroom, we will assume 25 students, with five teams of five students.

## The Procedure

1. Prepare. Create a “Nows and Laters Board” to use during the procedure.