216 The Classroom Behavior Manual

# Directive MBIs

Every effort to use **Choice MBIs** should be made before resorting to a **Directive MBI**. If you have to jump directly to a **Directive MBI**, it usually (not always) means that one or more parts of the strategies or procedures in this book has broken down. Often, there’s not enough **Strategic Noticing** taking place. Perhaps not enough procedures are being employed. Perhaps not enough **GGIs** are being used. Perhaps, though, a behavior may reveal itself immediately and without warning, even when sufficient strategies and procedures have been in place.

As their respective names suggest, **Choice MBIs** allow agitated students a choice about whether they need to take a Mindfulness Break; **Directive MBIs** require them to. From a practical perspective, notice that **Choice MBIs** do not give students a chance to refuse to go to a Mindfulness Center, since they aren’t required to go. This is why you should always try to use a **Choice MBI** before a **Directive MBI**. If a student refuses to go to a Mindfulness Center, you’re forced to follow the procedure on page 218.

5. **Directive-Choice MBI.** Say to the student, “Feel free to go to [name of Mindfulness Center #1] or [name of Mindfulness Center #2]. Come back as soon as you are ready. We want you to be with us.” Notice that even though this directs the student to do something, it still involves a choice. Notice also that this and the next MBI both include the mandatory invitation to rejoin the class.

6. **Directive MBI.** Say to the student, “There’s a spot for you in [name of Mindfulness Center]. Come back as soon as you are ready. We want you to be with us.”

Whenever possible, use MBI #5 instead of MBI #6. Only go straight to #6 when either all other centers are full or you are frustrated enough with a student that it is wise for all involved that you do not see the student for a bit. In this case, direct the student to go to a Mindfulness Center outside your classroom.

Which Mindfulness Center(s) you offer to students in MBIs #5–6 to go to is up to you. It is optimal to give a choice of two centers, one that is in your room and one that is out of your room. This gives the student more control than offering only in-room choices. Just as you may not want to look at a student’s face, the student may choose to go to another room’s center because they’re tired of you as well (Note: Keep in mind that if you are continually getting so frustrated with students that you often need them to leave the room, some or many other parts of the procedures or strategies