Relationship-Building Strategies 67

and is comfortable with you using it in this context, you can yell that name (ask about this before game time). Make it very clear that you care about the outcome of the game or match. Make sure everyone on and off the field of play notices that you are there.

- Eat lunch with your students at least one time per week until February. Showing your students that you want to spend time with them even when you don’t have to is invaluable. Do so at least once a week, making sure to take time for yourself and that you have enough time to make your copies, set up your lessons, and so on. Of course, secondary teachers usually have schedules that only allow them to eat with certain lunch periods. Still, word will travel that you are a teacher who likes spending free time with students, and this can go a long way toward building relationships with all of your students, not just the ones you can eat with.

Keep in mind that you can take just five minutes to be with your students and then go do what you need to do during the rest of the lunch period. Relationship building can be done during this time, and lunch monitors generally appreciate teachers being with students in the cafeteria. However, this time should never be spent cleaning up after students or opening packages and containers. This time is for relaxing with students.

- Sit on a parked bus with a student at least once per month. After you have used the ESPN Goodbye procedure to usher bus students from classrooms, hop onto a bus. Greet the confusion of the bus driver with a smile and sit with one of your students for a few minutes. Talk about anything. This may be a chance to do some private individual Strategic Noticing or just to shoot the breeze. It is, again, just showing students that you want to be around them even when you are not being paid to do so. Older students may act like they are annoyed or confused by your presence, but that is irrelevant.