Gentle Guidance Interventions 201

students are trained to not bring all or certain contraband into the classroom? It may also be affected by your school’s rules for how strict you must be with cell phones, makeup, electronics, fidget spinners, food, and so on.

Use your Calm Signal as contraband is removed. The object(s) should be put away. For GGIs #39–43, if the removal of student possessions is likely to cause an explosion of negative behaviors, it may be wiser to simply use your DLO Delaying Script (see Chapter 11) and change the behavior later by using a DLO, because if you are reasonably sure that explosive behaviors will occur after the use of an intervention, you will have to do a DLO anyway. In this case, this student will still have to learn some important behaviors, and you can avoid an explosion of negative behaviors. Similarly, if a student physically attempts to stop you from removing an item, simply delay the learning opportunity.

**39. Contraband Removal (as a Gateway to a DLO).** This is exactly the same as 38–42, but you will note (figuratively or literally) that you will be giving a DLO at a later time regarding the improper classroom importation of contraband. Of course, contraband such as weapons, drugs, and alcohol may have to be dealt with in a manner dictated by school policies, but try to use DLOs whenever possible to deal with even these kinds of rule infractions.

**40. Problem Stimuli Removal.** While contraband is, by definition, not allowed to be present in a classroom, any object can be used in such a way that it causes a problem. Anything that can be played with can become a distracting toy, and when it does, GGIs are necessary. Take the item exactly as you do when executing Contraband Removal.

**41. Problem Stimuli Removal (as a Gateway to a DLO).** See #39.

**42. Plan a Meeting.** This GGI is usually one that is used for behaviors that almost need a DLO. Sometimes students just need to be told honestly that their behavior is causing a real problem. This helps the student see you as a real person who is trying to do a difficult job. Of course, you should never do this at the moment of the negative behavior. Instead, whisper to the student:

> Oh, man. We need to have a meeting. Please meet me here at _:__.

Then, at that time, briefly let the student know that their behavior is causing a real problem for you, perhaps communicating that the behavior is making it difficult or impossible for you to do your job. Depending upon the nature of the behavior, you may want to make an honest statement about the