Delayed Learning Opportunities 233

2. Problem-Solving DLOs

3. Practice DLOs

Fortunately for you, only two of them, Problem-Solving and Practice DLOs, are under your control. Before these two kinds of DLOs are described and taught in depth, though, it is necessary to learn how to best interact with NLOs.

## Natural Learning Opportunities

NLOs are not taught by humans. NLOs are taught by the Universe or God, depending upon your religious orientation. Let’s use the Universe for our purposes in this book.

The Universe is set up to deliver Natural Learning Opportunities to humans when they step out of the bounds of what is naturally good for them to do:

- A human grabs a snake. The snake bites the human, causing pain or death.
- A human runs into a lake without being able to swim. The human drowns.
- A human runs into the woods at night to explore with no weapons or tools. The human is eaten by a bear.

The Universe has organized itself to teach humans lessons. One of two things will happen; humans learn the lesson and change their behavior to make choices that will allow them to survive and have a chance to thrive, or they never learn the lesson, they die, and the genes that may have led them to making such bad choices die out, leading to humans as a species being more able to make good choices that will allow them to survive and thrive. The fact that all of the examples above could have happened today or 10,000 years ago illustrates how they are all Natural Learning Opportunities inherent to being human.

There are also Natural Learning Opportunities in schools:

- A 2nd grade student eats too many cupcakes at a birthday celebration. The student throws up.
- A middle school basketball player forgets her basketball shoes at home and cannot participate in basketball practice.
- A 5th grade student does not study for a test and gets a failing grade.
- A high school freshman runs in the hallway, fails to notice a door opening in front of him, runs into the door, and hits his head on the floor.

In every one of these examples, the Universe has already given the students the opportunity to learn from their mistakes. NLOs are gifts to teachers, because the