262 The Classroom Behavior Manual

any other work that you are missing until you get back to your classes, though. No sleeping, because you can’t sleep and practice at the same time. No one will talk to you. You will be left to practice with no distractions. Your lunch will be delivered to you. I’m going to walk you over to 2nd grade now.”

The teacher walks the students over to the elementary wing while building relationships by chatting and relaxing with the students. If either student has any issues, he repeats the easy level while the other student temporarily goes back to class, since this DLO is a two-person practice situation. If both students have issues, they both repeat the easy level. If both pass the easy level, they report the next day as planned.

Every 40 minutes or so, an adult should notice the positive target behavior by saying, “I noticed you being peaceful.” This should continue throughout the levels.

If the students are successful with the easy level, at the end of the day, the teacher should congratulate the students for passing the level and instruct them to report back the next day. The next day, they will be greeted with the following:

“OK, easy level cleared! Today you have an opportunity to clear the medium, difficult, and boss levels. The medium level involves you both sitting in Mrs. Shaw’s office, on opposite sides of the room. You will practice being around each other, this time without a wall between you. The difficult level involves you sitting in her office but next to each other. These levels are completed just like the easy level: do whatever you want without standing, sleeping, napping, or talking. Before I tell you about the boss level, you guys need to decide how long you need to spend on the medium level: three hours or four?”

“Three.”

“Three it is. OK, the boss level will be different. The boss level will only be 30 minutes in which you will be sitting next to each other in the assistant principal’s office while he completes some work, and you won’t be allowed to do work. You can sit silently, or if you want to challenge yourselves, you can talk to each other. You don’t have to, though, as long as you can sit silently, talk pleasantly, or both. If you fail at the medium or difficult level, you won’t get to the boss level, and you’ll redo whichever levels you failed tomorrow. If you succeed, you will be showing me that