Gentle Guidance Interventions 195

**12. Point to the Side.** For students who are not quite in the right place, pointing to the side is far less intrusive than bossing students around regarding their exact placement in the room. This can be effective in being strict in what you allow as far as student desks being in the right place, students being in the right place in line, sitting on the right spot on a learning carpet, and so on. Again, feel free to combine with Confused Eye.

## The Stop Matrix

These are three ways of stopping instruction that stimulate thinking, take no effort, and take very little time. They can be used to scaffold the management of negative behavior as the behavior continues, or they can be used as stand-alone GGIs.

**13. Stop.** This GGI, like many others, is one that teachers have been using for years that was created simply through trial and error. When a student is using a low-level negative behavior, simply stopping instruction without making any other movement or change in eye focus is highly effective in getting students to stop their negative behaviors and does not bring attention to the student(s) using the negative behavior. Once the behavior stops, teaching continues.

**14. Stop/Look to the Middle Distance.** This intervention is the same as #13, but it also involves you lifting your gaze over the heads of your students toward, usually, a back wall.

**15. Stop/Look at Student.** This can be done in tandem with any of the Eye Interventions.

**16. Stop/Use a Mindfulness Center.** See Chapter 10.

**17. Shoulder Drum.** This can stimulate thinking in students who are not in the right place in the room or can gently bring space cadets back to Earth. It must be done exactly as described here. While passing by a student, take your index and middle fingers on each hand and gently tap on both shoulders of a student, playing a rhythm: bum-da-bum. Do not stop walking. Do not look at the student.

**18. Work Tap.** This is a simple GGI that allows teachers to gently refocus students on their work if that focus has waned. In order to make sure this is effective, it needs to be done as described here, with nothing added. Walk by the student and calmly and gently tap the student’s work without initiating eye contact and without stopping for more than a second. This is just a gentle refocus. Remember, you should never try to make a student work: the Real-World Workshop procedure will do that for you.