92 The Classroom Behavior Manual

unacceptable rules as possible. In nearly every case, one positive rule (e.g., “Be respectful” in Figure 5.1) contradicts all the unacceptable rules. Next, point to the positive rule and ask, “Who thinks this is a good rule?” (Do not ask if it is the best rule, just if it is good.) Count the votes.
- In most rooms, a majority of students will like the positive rule, especially if the teacher has been building relationships from Open House until this moment on the first day. Announce that since everyone—or most students—agree that the positive rule (e.g., “Be respectful”) is a good rule, then the class must reject the unacceptable rules because they violate that rule. For example, you might say, “Students can’t throw things or be as loud as they want and be respectful at the same time.”
- If you get lucky and too many students vote against the positive rule, then it is your turn to exercise some control. This is OK, because you have been and will be giving enormous amounts of control away as a matter of routine procedure. You can simply say that for any social group or society to work, people must be respectful. At that point, erase the unacceptable rules.
10. Review your revised—and much shorter—list of rules. Once you have rejected inappropriate rules, combined redundant rules, and worked out acceptable rules, the list should look something like the third column in Figure 5.2. Marvel that the class was able to combine and delete so many rules. Point out that there are only two rules left!
Note: “Work hard” might not be on your list. It doesn’t matter if it is or not; see the sidebar for more on that. However, “Be respectful,” “Be nice,” or “Be kind” should be the other (or only) rule. Why? Because these three rules basically mean the same thing, and each is an authentic, pure distillation of any set of rules for human interaction. It is the essence of the Golden Rule as well as the U.S. Bill of Rights, the Declaration of the Rights of Man in the Citizen in France, English common law, and every democratic legal code on Earth. In other words, when people get together to make rules for human behavior, the purest essence of what they come up with is to be nice, kind, and respectful.
11. Flesh out the final list. After marveling a moment, express that you still see a problem with the Class Rules. Explain that if the class keeps the list as it is, then you might be tempted to do something that you don’t like to do: lecture. “‘Be respectful’ is really annoying to hear and to say!” you might exclaim ruefully. “Do your parents ever nag you about being respectful? Mine did, and I really didn’t enjoy it.” Request that students change the rule to read something like