A Dramatic Proposition 7

As I was in a district that served a very high percentage of students who were poor and members of minority groups, what was being communicated was clear, and the advice was almost always similar: “These kids need to be dealt with sternly. . . . They don’t get a lot of love at home, so they won’t respond to it well at school. . . . Show them who is boss. . . . Get up in their faces. . . . Don’t give them an inch. . . . They won’t take you seriously unless you yell. . . . They only respect strength. . . . You have to be tough, or they’ll run all over you.”

In my interviews for teaching jobs, two years in a row, I was told by two different principals to “never smile in front of students.” It was made clear to me that this was a condition of my employment.

Even then, I knew that these instructions on how to deal with “these kids” went directly against what we know about how human brains work. The human brain cannot effectively work, learn, and function when faced with fear and threats. The human brain cannot function until the organism in which it is vested has been able to establish a functional environment whereby the organism can have all safety, control, and love needs met.

Even then, I knew that this advice about “these kids” was classist and racist. I think we all did.

But we took the advice anyway. We took this advice for the same reason someone wandering for days in the desert will eventually drink the sand: there was no alternative. Behavior management advice given in college either didn’t exist or was wholly inadequate to the point of being insulting. Write good lesson plans and there won’t be any misbehavior? Really? Have consequences for misbehavior? Great. What do those look like? Praise students? Huh. Why do the most difficult students act worse when I praise them? Have routines for classroom tasks and clearly define rules? Great. What do I do when students refuse to follow rules and procedures? What then?

The terrible trick that is played on educators is that this ineffective behavior management advice is not only ineffective with all kids, it is particularly ineffective with “these kids.” It is so unsophisticated, and so dismissive of the effects of trauma, that it is least effective with the students who need it the most! Tragically, this often leads educators to feel hopeless about their ability to help “these kids.”

The ugly truth is that when this advice causes you to crash and burn over and over and over, most people, in their desperation to do the job that most of us have been dreaming of doing since we were kids—will take any advice offered, especially when everyone around us has that advice reinforced by principals and fellow teachers every day.