124 The Classroom Behavior Manual

should also use technology to scaffold learning these skills. While it is important that the students take responsibility for their own schedules, remember that your requirements should be developmentally appropriate. Some tips for scaffolding can include making sure preK/kindergarten/1st grade classrooms have both analog and digital clocks visible for all students (which is probably a good idea whether or not you use this procedure). Make digital clocks available for students who need them at their desks. Provide desktop personal alarms, set by the students, perhaps with the help of a teacher, turned on every day by the students themselves.

## What If They Forget?

As previously stated, students using these notification strategies are more likely to remember their appointments. Also, keep in mind that many students going to appointments go with other students. This is often true of students going to gifted, special ed, or Title I Reading sessions. One student or more can remind others that it is time for an appointment, and they will all congregate and do a group alarm clock.

Even when using the Human Alarm Clocks procedure, students will sometimes forget to be aware of the clock. Just as with other jobs, we fire the student using the same, simple script we always use when firing students:

> Oh, man. You’re fired. You can hire someone to do the job, or I can. Your choice.

Then, the new hire will become the fired student’s alarm. The new hire will adopt the fired student’s notification strategy and, instead of going to the teacher, she will use the alarm on the fired student. At that point, the fired student will know to go to the teacher, get the dismissal signal (tap on the head, arm, etc.). The student can then leave.

For instance, at 10:15 every day, a 6th grade student may walk over to a fired student, grab his forearm with his hand and say, “OUCH-OUCH-OUCH-OUCH!” The person going to the nurse would then walk to the teacher, the teacher would tap his outstretched arm, and he would go to the nurse. Or, at 2:00 every Tuesday, a high school senior might go up to another student and say, “Dude. Go to OT.” That OT-bound student would just walk up to his teacher, stick out a fist, get a fist bump, and leave the room for his therapy session.

Do not underestimate how powerful the Human Alarm Clocks procedure can be. Students love being in charge of themselves, and after being hired, students love being in charge of other students. Once a student forgets and loses control over their own alarm clock, and either the student or you hire a new one, at some point you can let the first student know that you will be watching them throughout each school