Relationship-Building Procedures 75

on your hand. Be the first to grip and apply pressure. This will allow you to control the grip of the handshake, establishing friendly, loving dominance. Apply enough pressure to be firm, but don’t overdo it and injure your students—it’s an assertion of dominance, not a power struggle! Teachers should teach this protocol once during the first week of school. To ensure that you don’t lose face if the student walks by without shaking your hand, hold your hand just six to eight inches away from your midsection when greeting your students. Whenever possible, partially block the doorway so that students can’t just walk by you. That way you can at least offer the greeting. If a student squeezes too hard, simply say, “Ouch! Too hard!” If the student does not relent or continues to use this negative behavior, use these words as well as your personalized script for “getting to later” to deliver a Delayed Learning Opportunity (see Chapter 11).

- Encouragement without force. Initiate eye contact and physical contact, but don’t force them. You can offer a greeting and use each student’s name without compelling eye contact and physical contact. Students might be reticent to give proper eye contact or physical contact at first. Hold your position and offer. Encourage the eye contact by subtly moving your eyes toward the student’s field of vision, but do not aggressively follow their eyes, and never do so while blocking the student’s path. As always, smile. For shier students, not squaring your shoulders and sometimes briefly slumping over to make yourself appear smaller can also be helpful. Likewise, don’t force the handshake. Remember, you will have 180 chances to modify the behavior of students avoiding contact, so there’s no hurry.

## Class Nickname

It is difficult to give your students ownership of their classroom while constantly referring to the class as your class. No matter the age of your students, you will sometimes need to refer to the group as a whole. When you do so, you can either build ownership by using a name that the students choose or take away ownership by referring to them as “Mr. Johnson’s Class.” I suggest the former.

## The Procedure

On the first day of school, ask your students whose class they are in. Most will probably say, “Yours.” Older students might respond with an eye roll and a yawn. Younger students might not pay attention or care about the verbiage. Nevertheless, it is important to let them know that this is actually their classroom and that you