222 The Classroom Behavior Manual

# The Terminal Destination for Negative Behaviors

The terminal destination for negative behaviors that are not prevented by procedures or mitigated by GGIs is that students will need to learn positive behaviors through Learning Opportunities. You know how to use the Procedural Learning Opportunities that are integrated into Control-Sharing Procedures; for example, students who are not silent in response to a Prompt for Silence know that, in the end, they will need to practice being silent. Likewise, teachers must make sure that the terminal destination of all negative behaviors not prevented or mitigated through GGIs is a DLO. When a teacher sees students using negative behaviors, it is necessary for the mental health of the teacher to know that if the behavior does not stop, the students will learn a lesson about not using that behavior in the future. Giving students these two choices is calming for teachers. The third possibility, in which students do whatever they want, their bad behaviors becoming bad habits that become bad personalities that the world has to deal with forevermore, is too stressful of a thought to have while also teaching high school chemistry. Through the use of DLOs, we take away that option from students.

## A Sense of the Inevitable: An Essential Piece of the Puzzle

All parties must be aware that a learning opportunity—whether procedural (PLO), natural (NLO), or delayed (DLO)—is the inevitable terminal destination of all unprevented and unmitigated negative behaviors. While this understanding is important for the mental health of teachers, as noted above, it is also important for the mental health of students. Understanding that if they don’t use positive behaviors, they will have to learn to do so in a way that may be less convenient than using positive behaviors, is essential if students are to be able to use positive behaviors without Learning Opportunities and even without GGIs. When students accept this inevitability, they are on the road to becoming calm, self-regulated, and able to spend their days learning instead of trying to figure out what they can get away with.

DLOs offer students a logical, realistic opportunity to learn a behavior or solve a problem that they have caused through a negative behavior. These opportunities are delayed, rather than performed in the moment when the negative behaviors occur, for two reasons. First, at the moment of a negative behavior that requires a DLO, it is likely that both teacher and student may be experiencing too much stress to teach or learn, respectively, anything about behavior. Second, class time is for the teaching of lessons. DLOs take place during noninstructional time.