Delayed Learning Opportunities 223

# DLOs Versus Punishment

A DLO is not punishment.

Punishment is as simple as it is ineffective. Punishment simply prescribes that when a student uses a negative behavior, the teacher makes that student’s life arbitrarily painful so that the student learns to not use that behavior again. There need not be any learning or logical connection between the negative behavior and the punishment. The punishment just needs to cause some kind of pain. The pain is the point. Consider these examples of punishment:

- A 6th grade student uses sassy language with her teacher, so the teacher makes her eat lunch by herself in the classroom.
- A 3rd grade student does not finish an assignment, so he is made to “stand on the fence” silently at recess.
- A high school junior amasses a significant number of tardy slips, so he is not allowed to attend a school dance.

Punishments miss opportunities to teach important lessons about the world and how to live successfully in it. These examples illustrate attempts at teaching students nothing besides the idea that teachers will make students’ lives more painful if the students are not cooperative. This is not a useful life lesson; it teaches nothing but blind obedience for the sake of obedience itself.

Delayed Learning Opportunities teach important lessons about life and also build skills so that students are prepared for the challenges posed by the real world. Students who struggle using important life skills need to get better at them so that they are sufficiently equipped to be successful in the future.

## Delayed Learning Opportunities: Being Able to Think and Learn

While punishment involves fear, pain, and thoughtless obedience, Delayed Learning Opportunities involve learning important life lessons. If students are to learn, they must be able to think. Therefore, all of the tactics typically used with punishment need to be abandoned. The use of DLOs never involves warnings, threats, or lectures. It never involves anger. It never involves “breaking” students in order to make them cry. It never involves intimidation.

Perhaps most important, DLOs never involve students being asked to learn the important life lesson immediately. These are Delayed Learning Opportunities. From