Relationship-Building Procedures 81

might equate a new nickname with a new, better-behaved self. In addition, every time you call students by their nicknames, it improves your relationship with them and increases their feelings of ownership of the classroom and school.

## The Procedure

To maximize the relationship-building and ownership process, you should give nicknames in a fun, meaningful way that treats the nickname as an honor. Choosing nicknames and bestowing them on students with a special ceremony are accomplished through specific procedures.

1. Try to give one student a nickname before the end of your first week, even if it is an abbreviated week. Why? Nicknames and ceremonies are fun, students love them, and they set a positive tone in your classroom.
2. Whenever possible, do a Nickname Ceremony at the end of the day on the last day of the school week for elementary students and at the end of your class period with your older students on the last day of the week. This may cause students to think, as they are leaving for the weekend, “That was awesome! I can’t wait to come back here Monday! Wait, what am I saying?!”
3. Give the first nickname to the student for whom a nickname first pops into your head. Nicknames should come naturally. You shouldn’t force them, and you don’t need to first choose a student who has behavior issues just to build a relationship quickly. In fact, you should avoid giving the most difficult students nicknames first. There are two reasons for this. First, some students might think that you are giving preferential treatment to students who exhibit negative behaviors, and this may encourage students to exhibit those behaviors. Second, the tough students to whom you are giving the nicknames may “get wise” to what you are doing and see this as a manipulation, which will increase their resentment. However, you should try to nickname your more difficult students within the first few months. Also, if you have students with the same real name, you might want to pick one of them as an early nickname recipient in order to decrease name confusion in the classroom.
4. Choose an appropriate nickname that does not embarrass the student. You want to select a name that is specific to the student, but it doesn’t have to be the most original, unique, awesome nickname ever. The process should not add stress to you or your students. Keep in mind that you can use humor. The best nicknames lightheartedly refer to something that is notable about that student.