Academic Control-Sharing Procedures 163

happens only very rarely, but the first three weeks of school are not the time for significant academic rigor. Hopefully, each one of your classrooms’ hard work will be able to close the room down a couple of times in the first three weeks.

**For Intermediate Grades**

This section refers to grades that split the day in two, generally in situations where math is taught during one half of the day, language arts is during the other half, and science and social studies are taught one on each side of the midday break. This way of doing things is most typical in grades 4, 5, and sometimes 6. The differentiations here are a hybrid between the self-contained procedure and the secondary grades procedure:

- If you teach two subjects during your half-day, only allow academic Nows and Laters from those subjects.
- Your students should have half as many Nows compared with students in a self-contained, full-day classroom.
- Close down your half of school when appropriate.

**Voice Level PLO**

The instructions for creating Real-World Workshop given thus far are nearly all-inclusive in terms of using a procedure to create a real-world situation whereby working hard becomes a functional behavior and not working hard becomes dysfunctional. Not getting into power struggles over work makes cooperation functional and belligerent behavior dysfunctional. But getting hard work and cooperation from students in Real-World Workshop is only two-thirds of the equation. The final piece of the puzzle is the procedure for establishing and enforcing a proper voice level during Real-World Workshop.

A vast majority of teachers fail miserably at this. There are two essential reasons for this failure:

1. Students feel bossed around regarding voice level. Teachers tend to feel out of control when it comes to trying to maintain a proper voice level since, up until the publishing of this book, they have not had a surefire procedure for setting and enforcing limits about voice level. When their need for control is not met, some students rebel with louder and louder voices. The problem is compounded when all students try to talk over each other in order to be heard, resulting in a noise level that makes it difficult or impossible to learn.