256 The Classroom Behavior Manual

lowest number that denotes a pattern is three. For even relatively difficult students, take for granted that they won’t even consider changing their behavior until they receive a DLO three times for that single behavior. For these students, whether or not they see these patterns that are necessary to hold them accountable can be a matter of life or death. And whether or not you can establish this inevitability in the first two months of the school year will determine whether or not you can do and enjoy your job for the rest of the year.

## What Is the Role of School Administration in the DLO Process?

In the DLO process, administrators do not initially deal with disciplinary issues in response to the negative behaviors of students. Having an administrator take a primary role with discipline in a school is an inherently dysfunctional arrangement that, by definition, actively encourages negative behaviors. Students who attempt to get what they want through negative behaviors are almost always trying to get some combination of control, attention, or avoidance of a person or a thing, and that “thing” is usually work. What does a student get when a teacher sends them to an administrator as a reaction to their negative behaviors? Some combination of attention, control, and avoidance. The behavior is reinforced. When this dynamic plays out every single day for 180 days per year, the result is some level of chaos accidentally created by well-meaning people who have had no instruction or guidance on changing this dynamic.

Of course, this manual is that instruction and guidance. It doesn’t matter if you are the only teacher in your school using this manual. You don’t need anyone else. As someone who did not call on help from an administrator even once in a decade of using these procedures and strategies, I can tell you that if you explain to your administrator that you will be handling all of your own discipline, they will tend to love that arrangement, and they may even be very flexible in not asking you to enforce the “systems” that others may be required to use that are far less effective than the contents of this book.

Administrators reading this book should keep reading for ways to support teachers in their efforts to create a positive, prosocial school.

### Strategic Noticing

Difficult students, almost by definition, have had great success using negative behaviors to get attention, control, and avoidance. Traditional discipline puts school