Academic Control-Sharing Procedures 147

forces teachers into time-consuming, unwinnable power struggles; takes time away from instruction; and systematically encourages belligerent and resistant behavior. Traditional work time usually proceeds as follows:

1. The teacher introduces and teaches a standard.
2. The students practice the standard by completing an assignment.
3. Once the assignment is completed, the student is made to complete more assignments to practice the use of that standard or other standards that have already been taught until it is time to learn something else or until the school day or class period ends.
4. Students who do not do the work or do not work hard enough, are told—often repeatedly and with increasing emotion—to do their work or to work harder.

This process repeats itself thousands and thousands and thousands of times over the course of a student’s educational life . . . and it’s all wrong.

## How Traditional Work Time Prepares Students for a Way of Life They Will Never Actually Encounter

Traditional “work time” creates an environment in which students who work hard to get work done get one thing immediately after the completion of said work: more work. This model, not coincidentally, coincides perfectly with training students to be part of the workforce that existed during the time when compulsory public schooling was coming into existence. In the early and mid-20th century, more than half of working Americans worked on farms or in factories. Traditional work time in schools follows the “9 to 5” (factories) and the “sunup to sundown” (farms) models for work.

American public schools were designed to train students to be part of an economy in which participants were expected to work hard from the beginning of their workday to the end. But this type of economy hasn’t existed for 50 years, and it will never exist again. It’s time to stop preparing students for a world that no longer exists.

In today’s economy, hard work is as important as ever, and people still have essential work that they must do, and they face far more choices about what work they enjoy and how to pursue that work with enthusiasm. In today’s economy, the efficacy of a worker is more often based on the product or output of work, not the consistency and steadiness of input.