134 The Classroom Behavior Manual

If at any point multiple students from the same team exhibit negative behaviors while transitioning, so much so that picking out which students did what becomes difficult in any way, simply have the entire team go back and sit down. If you let team consequences be your default position for the first three weeks, you should rarely, if ever, have multiple students on a team consistently exhibit negative behaviors afterward.

**Failure to Get Locked In PLOs**

Nearly all classrooms will have at least a few students who have gotten what they wanted by being uncooperative over a sustained time period. These students will continue to use those behaviors during the Lock-It-In procedure before being effectively trained not to. For them, Failure to Get Locked In PLOs provide another excellent opportunity to learn the lesson that being uncooperative doesn’t get them what they want.

Failure to Get Locked In PLOs differ from Prompt for Quiet PLOs in that students are held accountable by their team, at least initially. This means that if even one student is uncooperative on a team, that entire team is held accountable. In 99 percent of cases, students will be held accountable with either a Class Transition PLO or a Single Team Transition PLO. It is easy to determine which practice procedure to use. If you have one team that fails with the procedure (read: is not perfectly cooperative), use a Single Team Transition PLO. If two or more teams fail, use a Class Transition PLO. In either case, say the following:

> Oh, man. I will help you do some learning later. Don’t let it ruin your day.

Then dismiss one team at a time, starting with the teams that were perfectly cooperative, in order of how quickly they became cooperative.

Once cooperative teams have transitioned, stop transitioning. For transitions to lining up at the door, allow cooperative teams to begin leaving the room before uncooperative teams get called to the door. Do not say anything to uncooperative teams or students about their behavior. For students who are not lining up but just walking out the classroom door, make sure all cooperative team members are gone before uncooperative team members are able to leave. For transitions within the room—carpet to desks, desks to carpet—make sure there is some kind of natural break between the cooperative and uncooperative teams. This is usually best done by beginning some small part of instruction before the uncooperative teams are asked to transition. Even transitioning cooperative students and then sitting down with them for a read-aloud before inviting the others to join you is enough to make cooperative behaviors functional and uncooperative behaviors nonfunctional.