122 The Classroom Behavior Manual

- It isn’t any fun.

Using Human Alarm Clocks solves all of these problems. It teaches kids that their schedules, health, and well-being are their responsibility; it keeps you from bossing around your students; and it is a fun and funny way to share control of the classroom with students. The “fun” quality encourages students to remember their appointments. It helps even more due to the general rule of thumb that students who have scheduled appointments throughout the day have higher control needs than those who don’t.

## The Conversation

The initial conversation for the Human Alarm Clocks procedure can happen with all students with scheduled appointments, with different groups, or with individual students. Talk to students who leave the room at any scheduled interval about the fact that everyone in the class needs to keep track of their own schedules; teachers are responsible for their schedules, and students are responsible for theirs.

Let students know that you will not be reminding them to leave to go to an appointment. Instead, after being told one time per year what time they are to leave and where they are to go, they will be remembering that it is time for an appointment by looking at the clock. It will then be their job to notify you in any way they would like with a sound and some kind of movement. Alternatively, you can give them a notification method, but it should be something fun and at least slightly silly. In any case, make sure they know that they are allowed to interrupt you, no matter what you are doing, when it is time. Tell them that whether you are teaching the entire class, helping one student, or talking to your principal, they are responsible for walking directly in front of you and performing their notification sound and motion. Besides all of the aforementioned benefits of using Human Alarm Clocks, students brazenly walking directly in front of you and doing something distinctive with sound and motion makes it nearly impossible for you to think they are out of their seats for no reason or in line to get work checked.

You should have a method that you use to “shut off” the Human Alarm Clocks. This interaction ensures you always know when a student is leaving the room so they don’t quietly use their notification strategy and slip out without you noticing. For example, I would always tap the tops of my students’ heads when they came to me with a notification, as if I was turning off my morning alarm clock. Some teachers do a fist bump, high five, or forearm tap.

While you can allow students to come up with their own individual notification strategies, and this may be best practice in terms of giving away an optimal amount of