Delayed Learning Opportunities 263

you are experts at being peaceful with each other, and you can get back to real life tomorrow. It’s all up to you guys.”

The teacher holds the students accountable by allowing them to fail or succeed at practicing effectively and reapplying practice time if and when needed. Once students have passed the boss level, the teacher says the following:

“It looks like you did it! You’ve completed the boss level. Are you guys experts at being peaceful with each other?”

“Yes.”

“All right. I did notice how peaceful you guys have been over the course of the last two days. [Shake students’ hands.] I am glad to have you guys back in school! I’ll see you tomorrow.”

This DLO and the planning for all of the necessary logistics allows the teacher to build relationships with students through their negative behaviors, instead of instituting a punishment that will inevitably hurt their relationship.

## When Do I Use a GGI and When Do I Use a DLO?

The answer to this question might surprise you: it isn’t tremendously important, so don’t get stressed out about which one you choose in any given situation. The reason for this is that, regardless of whether you choose a GGI or notify a student of a DLO, you have done no harm, and any harm or unfairness that you might cause in the future can still be reversed if necessary. This is by design.

Imagine you are teaching in a 7th grade classroom and, arriving at a Power Position, you see what appears to be two students, seated next to each other, playing tug-of-war with an unidentifiable object. It appears that they are both trying to discreetly pull the object from the other’s grip below desk level.

What you do not know is that Student A had been rooting around in Student B’s desk while you were at another Power Position, from which you could not observe this activity. Having found a stress ball, Student A started to remove it from the desk of Student B. At that point, Student B realized that he was being robbed, and you are now witnessing the ensuing tug-of-war.

You now have a choice to notify the students of a DLO or use a GGI. Let’s say that you use a GGI. You keep teaching while using GGIs #5 and #6: Reactive Movement and Hover. Let’s say, just for the sake of the scenario, the tug-of-war stops, and life