Delayed Learning Opportunities 227

Savvy students know that if a teacher does not have the skills to delay a DLO, the teacher also won’t be able to intellectually and emotionally handle behavioral problems while trying to teach perhaps 30 other students. Truly appropriate DLOs are hard to create and implement while you are teaching. Many students find profound enjoyment in forcing teachers to deal with behavioral situations in the moment, knowing that the worse their behaviors get, the more frazzled, upset, and entertaining the teacher will become. This also has a reinforcing effect.

The first goal of the DLO process is to notify students that there will be an opportunity for them to learn about positive behaviors later. There are three subgoals to be accomplished while you are giving students this notification:

1. Lower or at least maintain the arousal levels of both student and teacher so as to avoid outbursts. (This refers to outbursts from both student and teacher.) Of course, merely delaying the learning opportunity takes care of most of this by avoiding the immediate power struggle that would take place in front of the student’s peers. Exactly what we say and how we say it is important in this endeavor.

2. Keep teaching. This allows you to deny the student the work avoidance they are perhaps seeking (and perhaps trying to provide for their friends).

3. Stop the behavior. Traditional discipline tells teachers to attempt to overpower students with immediate punishments to stop their negative behavior. This will not work with difficult and brave students who are aware of their strategic advantage in the moment (see above). However, once students see a pattern in the teacher’s behavior, and know that a DLO is always inevitable, and if the DLO process is correctly followed, the more delaying of the learning opportunity will stop the behavior.

## Creating Your Own DLO Delaying Script

You will be delaying learning opportunities over and over throughout the rest of your career. The words that you use to do this should be ones that you are comfortable with, and they should be exactly the same every time: a predetermined script. Once memorized, the script will be one less thing to think about, making your life easier. In addition, using the exact same words every time will give you and your students a feeling of consistency that can maintain and even decrease arousal levels.

There are three parts to a DLO Delaying Script: