Academic Control-Sharing Procedures 171

## Gentle Guidance Interventions During Real-World Workshop

Only use all of the fantastic and helpful Gentle Guidance Interventions (GGIs) that you will learn in Chapter 9 when guiding non-voice-level behaviors. In other words, any other behavior can be dealt with using these interventions, but do not use them for voice level infractions. For instance, you can use GGIs for two students grabbing at each other, a student being out of their seat, or a student eating in class, but you would use the in-built PLOs for two students talking above an agreed-to voice level.

The only “sort of” exception to this guideline is when you are not quite able to tell if students are above the class-prescribed voice level. In that circumstance, you can consider using an intervention—usually an Eye Intervention (#1–4), and nearly always one of the nonverbal interventions (#1–24). Feel free to skip over to Chapter 9 for a sneak peek at those interventions.

## Put It All Together

Real-World Workshop is, by far, the most involved procedure described in this book. Relative to other procedures, it takes the longest to learn. But it is also a highly effective tool. Remember, all independent work that can be done while students are allowed to talk or work cooperatively should be done through Real-World Workshop!

## Silent Work Procedure

Times that students are not allowed to talk or work independently (e.g., state testing or Silent Sustained Reading time) call for the Silent Work procedure. Fortunately, you have already learned it! The Silent Work Procedure is just the Real-World Workshop procedure without any choices about voice level. You can even do music choices (if appropriate) and turn the music off as an immediate consequence for less than perfect silent work behavior. All PLOs for voice level infractions are the same, including shutting it down. You are just starting off on “silent.”

You can use the Silent Work procedure for mandated testing, though in this case you cannot use the ear-tuning PLO. You will only be able to use interventions and Delayed Learning Opportunities for voice level infractions, since you cannot take time away from the tests. For all other learning activities for which you have an