160 The Classroom Behavior Manual

their teachers are mean. They see themselves as being not smart enough to succeed in the ways their teachers want them to be successful—being human and wanting to be competent at something—so many try to be competent at being disruptive and at controlling their teachers’ emotions.

One important way to make this procedure more immediately effective is to simply set the academic expectations of the Nows significantly lower than you otherwise would. Of course, you should differentiate for students, and you shouldn’t make assignments insultingly easy, but err on the side of assignments being a little too easy, at first. The first three weeks of the school year are not the time to be challenging kids. The first three weeks are most important for building your routines, sharing control, building relationships, showing students that negative behaviors don’t work in your room, having fun, and getting students addicted to success. By the end of the first three weeks, you want your students to think, “This grade is easy, and I am good at it!”

Once you have hooked your kids, as the year goes on, slowly increase the difficulty of the Nows, eventually challenging students on a level that they never dreamed they could attain. By the end of the year, all of your students will be able to experience success—not just when things are easy but also when things are extremely difficult. This will greatly improve their self-confidence and self-concept. This progress over the course of just one year will be profoundly life-changing for these students.

While some students love learning for the sake of learning, many don’t. The use of Real-World Workshop gets students’ motors running and gets them addicted to working hard. Once the motor is running and they are energized to do work, they are likely to find work that they like or even love. Whether they find that they love math in 2nd grade or that they love industrial drawing at a career-based high school as a junior, Real-World Workshop can keep students motivated so they can find out what they love to learn!

**Close Down School**

On the very first day of school, I always said the following to my students. Consider trying something similar with your own students.

Look, folks, I’m a different sort of teacher. I don’t believe in making kids learn for no reason, and I don’t believe in hard work for the sake of hard work. There will be a bunch of things that you are supposed to do every day. I will only ask you to do work that will help you to learn important things. I’ll never ask you to do extra work. When you are done doing everything you have to do, which are your Nows, you can do stuff you’d