Student Job Procedures 111

- For elementary breakfast (with morning work) to Morning Meeting (see Chapter 8): “Three big bites, three big sips. You know what to do.”
- For elementary morning work (without breakfast) to Morning Meeting: “It’s 8:30. You know what to do.”
- For middle and high school homeroom: “It’s 8:30. What’s next?”

After modeling the Morning Cleanup Prompter job for an appropriate number of days, hire a student to take on the responsibility.

**Lunchtime Prompter procedures.** It is very important for students to understand that it is not the job of the teacher to get students ready to go to lunch; that is the job of the students themselves. Never tell a student to clean up or get ready, because you can’t control this, and it makes it less likely that HCNCs will get ready. Instead, use one of the following prompts.

- Elementary: “I will dismiss teams that are seated silently at quiet, clean tables.”
- Middle school/high school: “I dismiss teams to lunch who are silent, clean, and seated.”

If you have a different expectation (you don’t care if students are quiet or at clean desks, for example), you can change the prompt—for example, “I dismiss teams who are seated.” You can create your own prompt, as long as you are not telling students what to do.

Make sure that your own lunch is available in your classroom. Immediately after giving the prompt, start eating your lunch while comfortably seated at your desk. During these first days of school, make sure your lunch is especially appealing: sub sandwiches, delicious fast food, and so on. Large fountain drinks are helpful. Looking at your computer or phone as you eat makes it even more effective. Simply say your prompt once and start enjoying your meal. Your actions communicate to students, “Your lunch starts when you use the expected behaviors, but whatever you choose, my lunch starts right now.”

After modeling the Lunchtime Prompter job for an appropriate number of days, hire a student to take on the responsibility. Do this either during Morning Meeting (elementary) or at the beginning of the period before lunch (middle/high school). So that it makes sense, and so that the student gets ownership of the process, have them change the “I” in the prompt to “we” (e.g., “We will dismiss teams who are seated”), or name them directly in the prompt (e.g., “Devin will dismiss teams who are seated”).