Before You Begin 17

It was a bittersweet feeling to watch my students that day. That June would be my last June huddling in a circle in the classroom. I had resigned my position as a teacher at Fairborn Primary School. The demands of politicians and bureaucrats who couldn’t do my job in a million years had worn me down in a way that even the toughest of my students in those early years had not.

Besides, I had a book to write.

I had learned how to elicit positive behavior from even the most challenging students, and I could—I would—teach those procedures and strategies to other teachers.

Here is the exciting part: if I can do this, anyone can do it. I am not an organized person. My lesson plans were weak. I have a temper and I am easily frazzled. But I got my real-life Hollywood ending with my kids. If I can attain this fantastic level of success, you can, too.

That’s why you need to read this manual.

## How

Over the past 20-plus years, I have been a teacher, principal, discipline specialist, superintendent, and behavioral consultant. I have never been a teacher or administrator at a school where the poverty rate was lower than 60 percent. I spent the first decade of my career in the city of Dayton, Ohio, in schools with at least a 90 percent poverty rate. For the last 10 years of my teaching career, I requested to have the most difficult students in my room. The poverty rate of the students in my classroom during that time was never lower than 90 percent. For the last six years of my teaching career, I worked in one of the largest primary schools in the United States, with nearly 450 students in each grade. During that time, I continued to request the most difficult students. One of the years I taught 3rd grade, I had a 95 percent poverty rate in my room, and yet, 95 percent of my students passed the Ohio Third Grade Reading Guarantee. Those numbers are nearly unheard of, especially for a teacher like me who isn’t good at writing lesson plans, isn’t tremendously organized, and can’t do curriculum mapping or write a student learning objective to save his life.

How did I do it? I used specific and explicit procedures and strategies to elicit positive behaviors from students in a calm, assertive way. These prosocial behaviors included (but were not limited to) hard work, treating others with kindness, being courteous, and using an appropriate voice level. After creating these procedures and strategies, 99 percent of students’ time in my classroom was spent on task. Students loved being in my classroom, and I loved being with my students, no matter what kind of behaviors they came in exhibiting on the first day. For the last six years of my