Transitions: The Lock-It-In Procedure 135

**Class Transition PLO**

Notice that we did not give the opportunity for students to practice the procedure repeatedly during instructional time, since we have already done that by waiting patiently and perhaps even using some interventions. The students have already shown that they can’t be successful with this behavior right now.

When students on more than one team are unwilling to create a quiet and clean team environment in what you find to be a reasonable amount of time, it is time to let the entire class know that you will be utilizing a Class Transition PLO. Say the following with sadness and empathy:

> Oh, man, [class nickname]. It looks like you all are struggling with creating a quiet, clean environment when it is time to transition to another activity. No worries. I’m not mad at you. When you struggle with something, you need to practice doing it until you are an expert. So now I’m going to give you the chance to practice and become an expert. If you can become an expert today, that’s fine. Otherwise, you will be coming in to practice this every _______ for the rest of the year until you become an expert. That’s fine, too.

> I am going to give you all a chance to talk to each other. You don’t have to, though. Then I will say the prompt [or have the Lock-It-In-er give the prompt]. I will then give you 30 seconds to create a quiet and clean learning environment while I lock it in. I will count in my head. If the entire class has created a quiet, clean learning environment before 30 seconds, I will dismiss you all in the order that you were ready, and that will count for a successful practice. Tell me, how many times do you need to practice successfully: two times or three times?

Do this until everyone has successfully practiced for the amount that they chose, or until all but one team has practiced successfully and that one team has annoyed the rest of the class. At that point, dismiss successful teams one at a time and continue with a Single Team Transition PLO.

**Single Team Transition PLO**

Use the same script and procedures as you did with the Class Transition PLO. If you have transitioned from the Class Transition PLO to a Single Team Transition PLO, start with the same number of practices you had left when the cooperative teams left.