18 The Classroom Behavior Manual

teaching career, I had students whose combined office referrals for behavioral infractions the previous year numbered in the hundreds. Yet not one time in the last decade of my teaching career did I use an administrator for a disciplinary situation—not one referral, suspension, or expulsion.

This manual details how I accomplished these goals. The following chapters explicitly and systematically teach how to use specific procedures and strategies to create a functional, prosocial classroom environment. The aim of this book is to help schools produce healthy, successful people who work hard, treat others well, and make the world a better place.

A copious amount of research shows that to create a functional, prosocial classroom, students need quality interactions with calm yet assertive teachers who build relationships, develop empathy, share control in healthy ways, hold students accountable through appropriate consequences, and have consistent classroom procedures. Researchers have written extensively on this subject. They are experts at understanding why: why do students need empathy? Why are relationships important? Why do students need a healthy amount of control? But this is not just another why book.

This book is a manual. It is a how book. It contains procedures and strategies that enable teachers to gain control of their classrooms. A strategy is a plan of action designed to achieve a major or overall aim. Using Learning Opportunities and the Calm Signal fall under this category. Procedures are simply an established way of doing something. Procedures included in this book include the Lock-It-In procedure for effective transitions, the Student Nickname procedure, and the Class Rule procedure, just to name a few.

Through the implementation of these procedures and strategies, this manual teaches how to build relationships, develop empathy, give away control in a healthy way, and hold students accountable through appropriate consequences. Using these tools allows students to think and work in a relaxed environment with the highest standards of behavior, free from anger, threats, punishments, suspensions, and expulsion, and as a consequence, teachers are able to guide their students to become successful, prosocial children who will grow into successful, prosocial adults.

The procedures and strategies taught in this book are organized into two skill sets: building positive relationships with students and sharing control with students in healthy ways.

## Building Positive Relationships with Students

I had been taught that building relationships with students was a great way to gain control in the classroom; however, I wasn’t specifically taught procedures to