Delayed Learning Opportunities 253

less inhibitive the policies are regarding restraint and seclusion (for instance, allowing belligerent students to destroy property), the more significant the DLOs will have to be to counterbalance the functionality of those belligerent behaviors.

Ideally, districts and administrations will use crisis response training to implement policies that keep students safe while minimizing the functionality of negative behaviors.

## How Do I Work with Other Teachers and Staff to Share the Burden of DLOs?

Whenever possible, you should give and administer DLOs yourself. From an organizational standpoint, it is advantageous for as many DLOs as possible to be taken care of by the educator directly involved simply to cut down on the need for extra communication. From a teaching and learning perspective, it also shows students that their teacher is the ultimate authority figure in their lives at school. While it is optimal for you to implement the DLO process on your own, you should always feel comfortable getting advice on DLOs from your fellow educators. Oftentimes, one teacher ends up being the “go-to” person for the best and most effective DLOs. The delayed nature of DLOs lends itself to being able to get advice on the best Practice and Problem-Solving DLOs at a time when all is calm in the school (usually when students are not present). Many schools, grade levels, or departments have weekly meetings to talk about appropriate DLOs for students. Again, being able to delay the DLO allows for this.

While it is optimal for educators to completely handle the DLO process on their own, it can also be highly useful for educators to lean on each other when implementing the DLO process, as long as it is done correctly. The educator who implemented the DLO must always take the lead role in the DLO process. This trains all students to understand that the main authority figure in their lives at school is always the adult standing in front of them at any given time.

This means that the adult who gives the DLO Delaying Script must be the person who gives the student the instructions for their DLO. It does not mean that that educator must be with the student while they are solving problems or practicing. Schools, grade levels, teams, or departments can work together to staff noninstructional locations to schedule (perhaps daily) times that can be used for DLOs. Working together, educators can create that all-important feeling of inevitability in students: “I might as well do what is expected, because having to solve the problems that I caused or practicing doing what is expected doesn’t work out as well.”