Relationship-Building Strategies 55

them. For others, you may be the first adult they have ever encountered who behaves in the way you would like them to behave. These students have no chance of using excellent behavior if you aren’t modeling it for them. One cannot aspire to be what one has never seen.

## Extreme Respect

Respect—the concept that people should treat others the way that they would like to be treated—is the cornerstone of positive, prosocial human conduct. When respect is present, families, communities, and societies can be healthy. When it is absent, these same institutions crumble. One of your many jobs as a teacher is to concentrate on modeling respect as thoroughly as possible so that your students will be given a sterling example of how a respectful person behaves.

To be clear, when working with difficult students, it is, for most people, impossible to be perfectly respectful unless you use the procedures and other strategies. Extreme Respect is only one of the many pieces of the puzzle, but it is essential. Even when using most or all of the other pieces, implementing this strategy is a challenge simply because teaching is very, very difficult!

There are three different ways to use Extreme Respect:

- Extreme Respect ESPNs. The first and easiest way to model Extreme Respect is to practice it while doing ESPN Greetings and ESPN Goodbyes (further explained in Chapter 5). These are the least demanding circumstances to use the Extreme Respect method. First of all, first thing in the morning, no students have pushed any of your buttons! You have yet to make any of the 1,500 educational decisions required of you every day. You only need to do one thing at a time: greet students. In short, when you are ESPN Greeting students at your door, you are still in your right mind! Similarly, when you are giving ESPN Goodbyes, you know that you no longer have to see students anymore that day, which could, potentially, be a very happy time for you, especially early in the year before your students have been effectively trained to use positive behaviors that don’t drive you crazy!

With these advantageous logistics in mind, make sure you bask in, and take advantage of, these relatively low-stress moments as the optimal time to model Extreme Respect. Take the time to concentrate on your ESPN: make real eye contact; give a real smile; use authentic, FLA physical contact; and say their name (and eventually their nickname). Take time with both the Goodbye and the Greeting to interact with students while perhaps using a more formal register.