252 The Classroom Behavior Manual

of the students who would walk out of an unobstructed door will actually push past a teacher in a doorway.

However, some will. If you have school or district rules regarding this eventuality, follow them, but none of those rules should be used to supplant further DLOs. If the student attempts to get past you, do not grab or hold them, and do not get into any type of physical altercation to stop them from leaving. If they do leave the DLO location, use your DLO Delaying Script. Further DLOs can be arranged that involve the parental notification and legal considerations being addressed that would be necessary to close doors and use safety locks to create further inevitability.

## Crushing Behaviors with DLOs

If you are reading carefully, you may notice a small gap between the DLOs and the parameters put forward by most schools and districts and what they require for keeping students safe with restraint and seclusion. “What if,” you may ask, “a student is belligerent and stopping all learning, and even perhaps destroying school property, but is not posing an immediate physical threat to themselves or others? What then?”

When a student uses behaviors that create this type of chaos—chaos that disrupts the entire grade level or school—the behaviors need to be crushed with DLOs. This does not mean that the student should be crushed; it means that the behavior must be crushed. Remember, DLOs are the end of the line. They are the dead end whereby even the most extreme negative behaviors must be made nonfunctional: they cannot be used by the student to get what they want. In response to these behaviors, the student’s nonacademic life must be put on hold as much as possible until they have learned the lesson that belligerent defiance is an inherently nonfunctional behavior that will not get them what they want. This response might require both Problem-Solving DLOs and Practice DLOs; it might require DLOs being scheduled and staffed by a grade-level team (using such tactics is preferable to giving suspensions, which train students to think that belligerent behaviors get them vacations).

Still, all of this is done later. What about now? Now is the time to prioritize keeping students safe. There are GGIs for this, such as Mindfulness Breaks and Reverse Mindfulness Breaks, that can occur before or after you use your DLO Delaying Script as an intervention for keeping all students both calm and safe. However, even when you have done everything possible to prevent such an outburst by following the content of this manual, there is still the possibility that it may happen.

Keeping students safe is the province of the procedures and policies created by schools and districts, which may be helpful, hurtful, or both. There are ways of keeping students safe that minimize or neutralize making belligerence functional. The