46 The Classroom Behavior Manual

attempt to gain or regain control is to try to argue with the adult. While a student trying to argue with a teacher may be triggered by the use of the Calm Signal, the Argument Shield strategy can be used whenever a student attempts to argue. It will be 100 percent effective in stopping you from being controlled by a student’s attempt to argue.

Savvy students know, at least subconsciously, why they can win every argument with a teacher: students don’t have to win the argument logically. They only have to control the emotions and the time of the teacher. Therefore, the goal of the Argument Shield is to train the students not to argue by giving away the least amount of control over your time and emotions as possible. Doing this involves a simple, two- to three-line script, the first of which is the use of your personal Calm Signal, which you have already selected. The key is to use exactly this script and to never deviate from it if a student is attempting to argue. Say these lines lightly, quickly, and without stopping instruction or whatever you are doing. Only use the final question if the argument attempts continue after the second line:

(Student tries to argue)  
Teacher: (Calm Signal)  
(Student tries to argue)  
Teacher: I don’t argue.  
(Student tries to argue)  
Teacher: . . . And what did I say?

Repeat the last question as long as the student continues to argue, until you decide to delay a Learning Opportunity, when and if necessary.

Each of these three lines has a specific purpose:

- The Calm Signal stops the teacher from becoming angry and giving the student their desired control, while at the same time it does not exacerbate the problem with extra words and/or emotion.  
- Saying, “I don’t argue,” simply sets the limit.  
- “. . . And what did I say?” uses the power of questions to make the student think instead of making a demand. Simply repeating the limit will likely engender more resistance.

By using this simple strategy and never deviating from it, the teacher shows the student that they will not get what they want through argument, and they will learn, with each argument attempt, not to argue.

If a student becomes so disruptive that thinking and teaching become impossible, the teacher simply uses their DLO script (see pages 227–229) and gives the Learning Opportunity later.