56 The Classroom Behavior Manual

- Using “sir” and “ma’am.” The second way to show Extreme Respect is to call students “sir” and “ma’am,” instead of demanding that students call us these words. Model the use of these culturally acknowledged words of respect every day. Again, the easiest times to do this are when you are using the ESPN Greeting and Goodbye procedures.

  Calling students “sir” and “ma’am” is especially important for the time before you have given students their nicknames (further detailed in Chapter 5). In fact, before I gave students nicknames, whenever possible, I only called students “sir” or “ma’am.” These words simultaneously model manners and build relationships—and addressed the needs of students for whom the use of their real names hurt relationships.

- Extreme Manners. From the moment students arrive to the moment that they leave, you want to be the Shining Light of Manners. Take a moment to think of the most polite and well-mannered person you have ever met. Try to be that person. Again, this might involve a more formal register than your students or even you are used to. When students are speaking, look them directly in the eye and smile, nodding your head when appropriate. The following words and phrases should be used as much as possible:

  Please.  
  Thank you.  
  Would you mind doing me a favor?  
  It is great to see you!  
  I am so honored to have you in this class.  
  My friend, I am so ready for this day!  
  I am glad to have you here today.  
  I look forward to seeing you tomorrow.  
  You make our class a better place to be.  
  Take care of yourself tonight.  
  Be careful going to the game tonight.  
  Pardon me. After you, sir [ma’am].  

  All of these examples are appropriate for all grade levels. Do not shy away from the use of these phrases because they may be different in tone and register compared with what your students hear in their homes and communities. That is, in actuality, part of the point: you are purposely using these expressions in order to model an extremely respectful way of communicating.