Before You Begin 25

What makes this manual different? “Things” take time and energy away from you. They’re distractions that produce few, if any, positive results. They are easily discarded and replaced. This manual is not a “thing” because it does not take time and energy away from you, it does produce positive results, and it cannot be easily discarded by your administrators.

For every minute you spend reading this book and using its procedures and strategies, you will get hours back by training your students to exhibit positive, prosocial behaviors so you can teach and they can learn.

## I Promise

Over the past two decades serving in the field of education, I have worked in and visited hundreds of schools. During that time, I have learned a universally true lesson: there is nothing more valuable than the time and energy of an educator. Demands are put on educators that are unfair and unrealistic. These demands make it difficult to manage the daily business of the classroom—business that extends well beyond the classroom walls.

I promise that this book will not be another demand. It will not make your life more difficult.

I promise that you will get back the valuable time and energy you spend reading this book many times over.

I promise that by adopting these procedures and strategies, you will expend minimal effort to train students to be hard-working, prosocial people.

I promise that this book will help you experience the empowerment and joy that come with being successful at teaching students.

I promise that creating this positive classroom environment will dramatically improve your life and the lives of your students.

Let’s get to it.