138 The Classroom Behavior Manual

school and beyond. The stress created by these dynamics is even more damaging for HCNCS who have experienced significant trauma in their lives.

It is for these reasons that filling the entire academic portion of the day with choices given by a calm teacher is essential to the short- and long-term happiness of both students and teachers. It is also essential that these procedures be facilitated by the students themselves before the end of the third week of school, if not sooner. The only way for this to occur at an optimal level is by providing teachers with the procedures necessary to avoid all instances of anger, lectures, threats, and warnings. Simultaneously, teachers need to be able to give away any unnecessary control while confidently keeping the control that they do need.

The following procedures are described in the order in which they may take place throughout the day. Not every class will have an opportunity to use all of these procedures every day, due to grade level or type of class, but every teacher can use all or parts of these procedures to create procedures of their own. See pages 155–157 for guidelines for making your own procedures that best fit your grade level and specific circumstances.

## Morning Meeting

Successfully getting started every morning for every student every day depends on an effective Relationship-Building Procedure (ESPN Greeting) and a Control-Sharing Procedure (a Morning Meeting), both working their magic immediately upon the students’ arrival. Remember, you have no idea what has happened in the lives of your students over the weekend or since you saw them the day before. They may have experienced difficult or even traumatic events since they last left your classroom. All students, but especially your most difficult ones, need these relationships and this feeling of control immediately when they walk into your room, and you need to fulfill those needs.

Something else that they need is consistency. Keep in mind that your students’ lives may be a haphazard, random series of events from the moment they leave your classroom in the afternoon to the moment they arrive in your room every morning. You standing in exactly the same place giving an ESPN Greeting every morning will be the first building block in creating a consistent, calm, predictable, caring environment for your students. The second building block is a consistent Morning Meeting, starting with a Quick Start Activity. The content of this meeting will change daily, but it has the same components every single day—by design.