Mindfulness Breaks 219

The other student should be trained to get an adult (preferably not an administrator) who is able to leave their responsibilities for just a few minutes, when you give the code word.

The teacher should sit or stand in a position in the doorway where they can be seen by people in the hallway and where the teacher can see the refusing student. This is important for legal reasons (whenever you can avoid being alone in a room with an angry student, you should). When the alternate adult comes to the room, they should simply use their Calm Signal and then say, “OK, let’s get out of here.” In all my years, I have never seen the student not go with the other adult, and I have only heard about it not working once. Just like with the coach, the student is angry with you, wants to get away from you, and wants to show you up. How does the student accomplish all those things? By going with the other adult! The audience who saw the refusal has gone, so the student does not lose face, and being able to go with the new, “better than my stupid teacher” adult gives the student a sense of control.

That adult can simply take the student to any Reciprocal Mindfulness Center and follow a slightly modified Rejoin Invitation script: “Go back as soon as you can. They want you to be in there!”

5. **Reverse Mindfulness Break.** This works when you have a student who has had a recent history of being completely out of control—so much so that you know that preventive methods will have no effect, that they have not yet been trained successfully by the more intensive DLOs, and that they will refuse to take a Mindfulness Break. It requires some planning as well as an alternative learning space at the ready. That learning space could be an empty classroom or an outdoor area, depending upon the current learning activity. It also requires another staff member (preferably not a principal). If no alternative learning area can be arranged and no staff member can give up time, you cannot use this intervention. Having to use a Reverse Mindfulness Break is most typical at the beginning of the year with younger students, but it can be necessary at any time with any students, preK-12.

When the student refuses the Mindfulness Break, simply have the previously assigned helper student lead the class to the alternative learning area and have the other student get the helpful adult. This time, stay with your class and ask students to bring any necessary learning materials with them. Make sure you don’t leave until the adult shows up at your class. Once you leave to continue teaching, the other adult will simply ignore and monitor the belligerent student in what is now their private Mindfulness Center! For added convenience, a class can begin in the alternative