58 The Classroom Behavior Manual

responsibility for more than the casual observer would deem to truly be your responsibility. It says to your students “I love you, I care for you, I am in charge of making sure you have an opportunity to have an excellent school experience, and the buck stops with me.” A grade-level trip being unexpectedly cancelled, a school pizza party being postponed, and even an unexpected power outage are all good reasons to apologize to your students. This is the level of responsibility that excellent leaders take for their companies (CEOs), cities (mayors), or schools (principals). Perhaps your modeling will lead some of your students to assume this level of responsibility in their lives when they become a CEO, mayor, or principal.

- When another adult is unkind. If another teacher or adult is unkind to your students, your silence will be interpreted as tacit approval. This is not acceptable. You are under no obligation to support a teacher who walks into your class and yells at your students or to remain silent when a recess monitor belittles your student. Besides taking any other steps necessary to defend your student, it is imperative that you apologize if and when these things happen. Many of the reasons for this kind of apology are the same as above, but an additional one is that your students will understand that you care about them and their feelings and that you feel responsible for making them feel safe when they are at school.

- When you cause a problem. Remember the rules for the classroom? You are not allowed to cause a problem, just as your students are not allowed to cause a problem. When you do, just like your students, you need to solve it. For instance, if you accidentally bump into a student as you are doing your Preventive Movement, saying you are sorry and making sure the student is all right models both apologizing and solving the problem that you caused. If you accidentally have a student do the wrong math problems, apologizing profusely and personally erasing the erroneous work will go a very long way to model responsibility, care, and problem solving, thus building your relationship with the student.

## Bonding

These Bonding strategies will lead students to fall in love with you, supercharge the effectiveness of the Modeling strategies, and make them remember you forever.

### Go Out of Your Way for Your Class (Without Conditions)

I still remember the first thing I did right in my teaching career. (Unfortunately for me and my students, it didn’t occur until six months into my first year of