Student Job Procedures 127

## Hiring and Training

One major difference between this job and all others is that it requires students who wish to have the job to rehearse and then audition for it. For kindergartners and 1st graders, I suggest sending a letter home to parents that looks something like this:

Dear Parents,

As you know, part of being a Behavioral Leadership Classroom is that we allow students to help manage their own classroom as a way to create a more functional and efficient learning environment and so that students feel more ownership of their classroom. One way they do that is to be hired by me to do certain jobs, including Class Greeter/Executive Assistant. For this job, the student will be required to greet visitors to the classroom with the script below. I will be auditioning interested students next week on ________. The student who can best deliver the script while shaking hands and looking me in the eye will get the job.

If your child is interested in having this job, feel free to work with him or her on rehearsing this greeting. Below is the Class Greeter script:

“Hello, I’m ______. [Shake hands.] Welcome to the  
_______ Classroom. Right now, we are ______________.  
How can I help you?”

Thanks!

To further “screen” students for this position, offer free coaching at some point on shaking hands and looking people in the eye. Put up “Rehearse Student Greeter Script” as a Later during Real-World Workshop. Then take some time to audition students for the job, making sure you keep in mind how well they shake hands and look you in the eye. Hire the most proficient student, taking special care to make sure that they genuinely want the job.

Inform your new Class Greeter/Executive Assistant of any people who should be exempt from having to be greeted. The list should be short but may perhaps include a teacher with whom you plan from across the hall or a special ed teacher who works