Delayed Learning Opportunities 241

Practice DLO: The student is required to stay out of the personal space of the teacher, while pretending that the teacher is the student who has been habitually physically crowded by the student who is practicing.*

Remember, the Practice DLO is a DLO, not a punishment. Students can read books or do activities while practicing. They can enjoy themselves. Pain is not the point. Learning is the point! Students can learn and enjoy themselves at the same time. Any behaviors that students struggle with can be practiced until students attain proficiency.

---

## DLOs for Failure to Use Mindfulness Centers Correctly

As the alternative to highly destructive tactics that contribute to the school-to-prison pipeline, it is essential that students are able to effectively use Mindfulness Centers. Without them, schools will revert to the catastrophic countermeasures detailed earlier. Therefore, students’ behaviors cannot be allowed to interfere with the effective, efficient, and faithful use of Mindfulness Breaks. Common negative behaviors that occur related to the use of Mindfulness Breaks include students refusing to go to a Mindfulness Center and talking or being disruptive while in the center. Now that you have learned about the two kinds of DLOs, simple DLOs that would be appropriate for these behaviors may be obvious to you. Just in case they are not, the following are the possible Problem-Solving and Practice DLOs for students using negative behaviors instead of properly utilizing Mindfulness Breaks.

### Problem-Solving DLO

Simply use a Destressing Problem-Solving DLO for any and all DLO-worthy negative behaviors that are related to Mindfulness Breaks.

### Practice DLOs

Students who cause problems while in a Mindfulness Center should get extensive practice sitting, standing, or doing mindfulness activities nearby a Mindfulness Center. The student should not be made to sit or do yoga, or med-

* Note that when one student needs to practice a behavior that caused a problem for an innocent student, the innocent student should never be called upon to be the “dummy” to be practiced on. Instead, the teacher can stand in, getting work done while ignoring the practicing student. For younger students, a large stuffed animal or cardboard cutout can be a stand-in for a wronged student. When two students need to practice a behavior around each other, both students can practice not causing a problem for the other by being in close proximity successfully.