# 10

## Mindfulness Breaks

Mindfulness Breaks are a special intervention that require extensive explanation in order to do them correctly. They can be done at any time and can be initiated by the students themselves. They are done as needed, without anxiety or haste.

Traditional discipline uses something somewhat similar called “time-out,” and other common programs use comparable methods. None of these methods is a true Mindfulness Break and all will come up short, especially when used with difficult students.

Not every student can learn and function as a prosocial member of a classroom during every second of every day. Past and current traumas, lack of sleep, lack of nutrition, mental or physical illness, or current agitation that is exacerbated by these other underlying issues can make it impossible for students to learn. Students must be able to retreat to a minimally stimulating environment so that they can feel a healthy kind of control and change their own brain chemistry in order to again be able to be part of the learning environment in a prosocial way. In addition, teachers need to be able to maintain a functional learning environment by making sure that students who are not in the right frame of mind for school are not affecting that learning environment.

Mindfulness Breaks offer all of this to all students. The use of these breaks allows students to understand that it is OK not to be in the right frame of mind for school and that they have a safe, calm place where they must be until they are able to be a part of the learning environment. The learning environment is set up for people who

203