198 The Classroom Behavior Manual

Noticing Misdirect is done exactly the same way as Strategic Noticing, but with an extra effect. You simply notice the positive behavior of a student or of students: “I notice you playing this game cooperatively,” for example. The only difference between Noticing Misdirect and Strategic Noticing is when you do it. You can make Strategic Noticing also become Noticing Misdirect by using it with students who are playing cooperatively near students who are not playing cooperatively. Again, this reinforces the positive behaviors, completely ignores the negative behaviors, and gently guides the students using the negative behaviors toward positive behaviors. Perfect!

**27. Preventive Helping.** This one is highly effective if done correctly, but it can be highly destructive when done wrong. Teachers who attempt something close to this with traditional discipline often destroy their environments.

When a student appears to be getting angry and frustrated, but other students have not yet noticed or only noticed in a very minimal way, ask for some Preventive Helping. Have a teaching tool of some kind at the ready—a stapler, a hole punch, or an empty flash drive. Give it to the student and ask them to take it to another specific teacher relatively nearby. You will have already talked to this teacher and they know to simply accept the teaching tool and say, “Thank you.” This minimizes attention given to the emotional buildup, and it gives the student a chance to take a break and briefly change environments.

What many teachers do is wait until the student is angry in a way that everyone sees, then allow the student to “take a lap” whereby they are allowed to wander around the school. Do not do this. The effects of regularly responding to student emotion this way will usually be catastrophic. Besides the fact that you are allowing a very angry student to wander around the school unmonitored, you are also letting all of your students know that they can leave the room whenever they want as long as they act very, very angrily and dramatically first. In a matter of days after this action, you may find yourself in a room full of very angry, dramatic students.

**28. Assumption of Intelligence.** Ninety-nine percent of the time when we tell students to do something, they already know what they should do. When we tell students to throw away their food or put away their materials because the bell rang, we are needlessly taking away control, implying that we think kids are unintelligent and making them feel bossed around.

This statement simply tells the student that you know that they are so smart that you don’t even need to tell them what to do next: “You know what