96 The Classroom Behavior Manual

2. **Display the draft in a prominent location.** This will now be referred to as the Class Constitution.

3. **Consider how to share control over the Class Pledge.** Before moving on with the rest of the procedure, determine how much control you are willing to share with students regarding how they say the Class Pledge. What they say or recite is the class constitution; how they say it is what defines the pledge. You should decide ahead of time what elements of performing the pledge your students can decide. Options include whether they sit or stand while saying the pledge, what pose they take, and how they finish it. Keep in mind the age of your students, and keep it easy and safe—finishing the pledge with a roundhouse kick is probably a bad idea.

4. **Designate constitution work as Later activities.** Prepare for the next Real-World Workshop by listing “Write class constitution” and “Sign class constitution” as Laters. Have poster paper and multiple colors of markers set out. When students have finished with their Nows, they can write the class constitution on poster paper and sign the document. Encourage them to use their best handwriting.

5. **Display the constitution.** Prominently display the class constitution at the front of the classroom, where it will be the focal point of the Class Pledge.

6. **Determine the format for the Class Pledge.** Explain to students that they have written out their class constitution, and now they must decide how to say the constitution as their Class Pledge. Tell students what aspects of performing the pledge they will be deciding.
    - Begin by conducting a vote on whether students should sit or stand while saying the pledge. (If developmentally appropriate, allow a student who is being attentive at the time of this ritual to conduct and tally the vote.) The majority rules.
    - Tell students that they will next suggest and vote on a pose or other physical act that students can do as they say the Class Pledge. (Remind students that people stand and hold their right hand over their heart when reciting the Pledge of Allegiance.) Explain the guidelines for any suggested pose: it must not cause a problem, and it cannot be putting your hand over your heart. (Notice that we no longer have to remind kids about the pose being safe and appropriate for school; now we only have to say that the pose must not cause a problem.) Remind students that they can punctuate the end of the pledge with a sound, movement, or both simultaneously.