Before They Arrive 37

Keep in mind that no student—no person—is entitled to a place in life where they feel completely comfortable with their surroundings at all times. That’s not how life works.

Here’s a sample longer answer that you can give parents who contest the seating or team arrangement. You can modify this response for the students themselves as well as for administrators who might be asked to intervene.

I care too much for Joseph to steal this opportunity for growth from him.

For Joseph to be successful in life, he will need to deal with all kinds of people. Now is the easiest and best time to learn these hard lessons. I properly monitor all students and will help guide Joseph through this tough time.

---

# Using Team Color-Coding

During the first few weeks and throughout the year, every individual on every team will have the opportunity to decorate and adorn their team area, bins, books, and journals. This creates a tremendous sense of ownership among students over their teams and their classroom. You can help set the stage for this process before the school year begins by color-coding student workspaces, areas, and materials.

How much or how little color-coding you do will depend on the age of your students, your resources, and your personal preference. I recommend using strong, solid colors. In my classroom, I had five teams. I assigned each team a bold color: red, blue, orange, green, or purple. I decorated with these colors wherever and however I could before my students arrived for the first day.

I bought colored bins (one for materials, one for hanging folders). I used colored tape to adorn book bins, spelling list holders, and locker numbers. I placed colored stickers on books and journals. I prepared and handed out color-coded math journals. Finally, in my 1st and 3rd grade classrooms, I used a carpet with matching colors for students to sit for direct instruction. The carpet had six rectangles of each color; students could only sit on their team color. You will be amazed at how creating cohesion in this way truly generates a feeling of belonging in the classroom!

If you’ve followed the instructions of this chapter, you have now set yourself up for success. If you’ve never made these types of preparations before, you’ve never given yourself much of a chance to optimally lead behaviors. Once the students show up, it’s going to get harder before it gets easier. But now—perhaps for the first time—you are ready for the challenge.