188 The Classroom Behavior Manual

Even if Calm Signals, Strategic Noticing, and the procedures were used, it would not have been effective enough for Michael to be successful at being a positive contributor to his class in the short term and to his world in the long term. Because of his level of trauma, Michael would use so many negative behaviors at such a high frequency rate that those negative behaviors would have overwhelmed his class and teacher before the Bad Kid Cycle could be reversed, before the procedures were able to offer enough healthy control, and before they could build enough of the necessary relationships. The final, missing piece that Michael would have needed is the content of this section: Control-Sharing Strategies.

Control-Sharing Strategies help you react to negative behaviors and change them into positive ones in ways that are minimally intrusive and less likely to trigger explosive behaviors from students. They include Delayed Learning Opportunities (DLOs) and Gentle Guidance Interventions (GGIs).

There are hundreds of thousands of Michaels all over the country. They deserve to have a chance at success, and without these Control-Sharing Strategies, used over time, their chances of success are minimal.

**************

Control-Sharing Strategies are also important for Mykeshas.

Mykesha was a happy, healthy student from a functional family, and she was in the same class as Michael. She exclusively used positive behaviors, and she was pulled out of my class by her parent because my room was physically dangerous and she wasn’t learning anything. There are tens of millions of Mykeshas in our country: students who cannot learn anything in their classrooms because their schools are being destroyed by Michaels.

The bottom line is that both Mykeshas and Michaels deserve a positive, loving environment in which they can feel safe, have fun, and learn. It is a civil right. It is a human right. The following chapters will show you Gentle Guidance Interventions that will allow you to mitigate low-level negative behaviors and gently guide students away from those behaviors without creating power struggles that make behaviors worse. One of these chapters is about a special GGI called a Mindfulness Break, which allows students to take as much time as they need to regain the composure necessary to again be a positive, prosocial member of the classroom.

Delayed Learning Opportunities are the terminal destination for repeated or serious negative behaviors not prevented by Relationship-Building Strategies, Relationship-Building Procedures, and Control-Sharing Procedures and not mitigated