54 The Classroom Behavior Manual

proximity to your students. You can even stop briefly near an individual student who might be on your radar, whether or not you notice that student experimenting with a negative behavior.

## Preventive Charge

Use a Preventive Charge not only to forestall negative behaviors but to have a little extra fun. While most Preventive Movement involves slow, calm walking around the room, this strategy is done with all of the running speed you can muster. With no warning and for seemingly no reason, try sprinting from wherever you are in the room to a Power Position and teaching with greatly increased volume and emotion. This works best when you find yourself having to be at the board or anchored in one position and you feel like you are behind on your Preventive Movement. Your antics will surely prevent negative behaviors, as well as refocus anyone whose attention may have been wandering.

Of course, combining Strategic Noticing with Preventive Movement is essential. Moving around the room is the cornerstone of effective behavioral leadership, and stopping and putting your hand on a student’s shoulder or chair can make for super-charged, highly effective noticing. Teachers who neglect the use of these strategies cannot be optimally effective.

## Modeling
### Establish a High “Behavioral Ceiling”

The Behavioral Ceiling is the concept that your students will never behave any better than you do. You set the Behavioral Ceiling with your own personal conduct. The behaviors that you model should be the exemplary behaviors that you want your students to use. If you want students to be polite, you must be polite. If you want your students to be peaceful, you must be peaceful.

This advice, by itself, is not very useful. In fact, the three modeling strategies that follow are not very effective by themselves. The truth is that if a teacher does not know how to use the procedures and strategies contained in this manual, there will be so many negative behaviors present in the classroom that it will be very difficult to act like a person you would want your students to emulate. Without ensuring that they are able to employ the strategies and procedures, admonishing teachers to “behave well” is a useless, insulting, and frustrating demand.

For some of your students, you may be one of many positive role models in their lives: they have parents, relatives, and coaches who model positive behaviors for