Part IV: Control-Sharing Strategies 187

As I attempted to ignore negative behaviors and be nice to Michael, his behaviors escalated, as did my blood pressure. After 40 minutes in the classroom, I abandoned the strategies of “ignore” and “be nice” all at once.

“ALL RIGHT, THAT’S IT!”

If you ever hear yourself saying these words, try your best to stop talking. No one has ever followed up “ALL RIGHT, THAT’S IT!” by saying something smart or helpful.

“YOU ARE NEVER GOING TO RECESS EVER AGAIN!”

I was so far gone and so fully controlled by my brain stem that I am surprised now that I was able to form words of any kind. This ridiculous, unenforceable punishment notification sent Michael into the stratosphere. Formerly targeting his belligerence toward specific people and things, his path of destruction now became an arbitrary and violent tantrum. As he began to roar and tear things off the wall, kicking and hitting anyone around him, I reacted.

“NOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO!” I bellowed, as I grabbed Michael by the arm and pulled him out of the classroom and down the short hallway to the principal’s office. As Michael and I burst through her office door, she was sitting in a meeting with another adult whose job appeared, at that moment, to be significantly easier than mine. Taking Michael by both shoulders now, I extended my arms forward toward my principal.

“HERE!” I said, before storming out of the office.

Translation: “YOU DID THIS TO ME, AND NOW I AM DOING THIS TO YOU!”

* * * * * * * * * * * *

Michael came from a profoundly unsafe, unpredictable, dangerous home environment where he practiced extremely negative behaviors such as stealing, lying, and physical assault. These behaviors elicited anger, yelling, and physical abuse from his mother and grandmother. These reactions from the women in his life began and perpetuated the “Bad Kid Cycle.”

You have learned how to break this cycle; you have learned to remain calm and not give students the anger that they are trying to elicit with negative behaviors by using the Calm Signal. You have learned how to systematically give students attention when they are using positive behaviors by using Strategic Noticing. For Michael, the use of the Calm Signal and Strategic Noticing would still not be enough to break the Bad Kid Cycle.