Relationship-Building Procedures 73

(FLA). Students know that FLAs love them, will take care of them, and are in charge.

2. Offer a genuine smile. A smile sets the tone for the day and lets each student know that they are welcome and liked. A smile also lets everyone know that the FLA is calm, assertive, in control, and ready to go.

3. Initiate friendly, safe physical contact. Again, students have a biological need for appropriate physical contact. This is a wonderful opportunity to model a proper handshake—firm, respectful, welcoming, and genuine. This kind of handshake establishes the adult as the FLA while forging a connection with the student. The teacher should hold each handshake until done greeting the child, which includes the greeting itself (e.g., “Good morning!”), the student’s name, and time permitting, some personalized small talk (e.g., “How was your game last night?”).

4. Use each student’s name. Most people love to hear their names. Saying a student’s name or, even better, nickname (see the Student Nicknames procedure) personalizes the greeting. It lets the student know that you aren’t just going through the motions. This is particularly important for your most at-risk students, who tend to have trust issues, usually for very good reasons. In addition, those students who are most at risk might have developed a negative association with their name being used by an adult (e.g., teacher, parent, or principal). For these students, their name is often said in anger as part of a punitive power struggle, and the use of their name by an adult might trigger them to flight, fight, or freeze. As an educator, you have a wonderful opportunity to change this association. With all students, but especially with at-risk ones, putting positive emotion behind their name can be a game-changer. Use each student’s name throughout the day, too. Pause in the hallway to call out a greeting to another student. You’ll be amazed at the difference it makes.

### Additional Considerations

Combining meaningful eye contact, a genuine smile, safe physical contact, and the student’s name begins the relationship-building process and establishes appropriate dominance. It is always possible to execute the ESPN Greeting. If you think you don’t have time to make this happen, then you need to adjust something in your routine or schedule. The most important thing you can do each day, for each class, is to be ready to give this greeting to every single student.

To make sure that you are ready, consider and troubleshoot the following logistical concerns: