212 The Classroom Behavior Manual

The area immediately around the Mindfulness Center should, of course, be as safe as the rest of the classroom, and there should be an attempt made to not have objects nearby that are overly stimulating, tempting to touch, or easily available. However, it is not necessary to make sure that the area is “mischief proof.” Students who need training to be prosocial while in the Mindfulness Center will be trained through a specific DLO (see Chapter 11) to do so.

# Mindfulness Centers: Where They Are

## In-Room Mindfulness Centers

An In-Room Mindfulness Center should be as removed as possible from any focal points in the room. The center should not be at the front of a forward-facing classroom. It should not be next to or facing a reading table in an elementary room. It should also be positioned so that you are able to casually monitor students in at least a minimal way (while ignoring them). Mindfulness Centers should never be in or next to the classroom door and should never be in the hallway. It is rare for a Mindfulness Center to not utilize a classroom wall.

In a typical preK–12 classroom, there should almost always be room for two different Mindfulness Centers, though you may need or want to have only one. Larger rooms typically used for PE, music, or career-based instruction may even have room for more than two Mindfulness Centers. Multiple centers can exist under the following guidelines. In-room centers should not be near each other, for obvious reasons. Mindfulness Center chairs should not face each other, even from across the room. Though a specific DLO will be used to make sure all students are trained to not cause problems while taking a Mindfulness Break, it is very difficult for any two people not to get the giggles when made to face each other. In addition, having to look directly at another person works against the goal of decreased stimuli for a Mindfulness Center.

## Reciprocal Room Mindfulness Centers

If another school staff member has a room near yours, has read this manual, and wishes to coordinate with you, their In-Room Mindfulness Centers can be your Reciprocal Room Mindfulness Centers (and vice versa). Discuss with reciprocating teachers exactly how student(s) will travel between rooms and how you and the reciprocating teacher will make sure that they arrive at the reciprocal room while receiving minimal or no attention. Mindfulness Breaks must follow the procedures exactly as described in this manual; do not attempt to use Reciprocal Mindfulness