Mindfulness Breaks 211

desperate need of control. If you don’t share some healthy control with students by using Mindfulness Breaks, they will take that control in an unhealthy way that is likely to cause chaos.

**Explicit Instructions for Creating, Implementing, and Maintaining Mindfulness Breaks**

As with many things that are difficult and important, exactly how you create, implement, and maintain Mindfulness Centers is the difference between success and failure. Simply designating a spot in the room where you send students once they use particularly bad behaviors, or once they exhaust or anger you, is not a Mindfulness Break, and the two should not be conflated. Keep reading for details on optimizing the Mindfulness Breaks GGI.

**Mindfulness Centers: What They Are**

From the perspective of the educator, a Mindfulness Center is neutral in every possible way. It is simply a chair placed somewhere that is not a focal point for anyone, where a student can be at least minimally monitored and totally ignored. It is neither comfortable nor uncomfortable. It is a place that has fewer stimuli than the learning environment. This means that the center includes nothing to play with, work on, or do. Students who visit a Mindfulness Center need less stimulation, not more. It is acceptable, healthy, and helpful for students to be permitted to bring sensory objects that they already have to the Mindfulness Center, but they won’t be able to get a new one there. Schoolwork is not permitted in the center.

It is helpful, whenever possible, to have a chair situated in the Mindfulness Center so that to the seated student’s left or right (good) or both left and right (best, though not usually possible) there is a solidly colored surface that obstructs the student’s view of visual stimuli and slightly muffles auditory stimuli. Having the chair back against a solid wall or surface is also helpful. This is usually facilitated by having a wall on one or two sides of the student, and sometimes using a bookshelf to create a third wall. The chair should never be positioned facing a wall, since this has a punitive connotation, though if a student moves the chair to face a wall, allow it. It can sometimes help to use a chair that is slightly shorter than a normal classroom chair, as the lowered seat position can further minimize visual stimuli. The chair size should not, however, be so small that the student will be significantly uncomfortable or embarrassed.