Relationship-Building Strategies 45

During these two weeks, when you are calm (perhaps doing things around your house or while reading a book), inhale, then exhale saying your Calm Signal, just like you did in bed. Continue to use your Calm Signal when some small thing doesn’t go your way: you can’t find your car keys, you get put on hold by your health care provider, or you realize you forgot to pay a bill.

## Train Yourself to Use the Calm Signal at School

During or after these initial two weeks, start using your Calm Signal at school when the kids aren’t there yet. Optimally, you could use it while preparing for the first day. Just like at home, when something doesn’t go your way (your class list isn’t in your mailbox, you’re running late to a meeting, or the copier is broken again), use your Calm Signal before reacting in any other way. Practice using your pause button over and over and over again.

Next, use it when your students are in the room. Don’t wait until things get rough! Start by using your Calm Signal when something mildly annoying happens: you didn’t make enough copies, you realize that you taught the wrong lesson, you sent the wrong students to reading groups. Then, when a student uses an annoying behavior that may have previously caused you to react with something not appropriate, not helpful, and not in this manual, inhale and use your Calm Signal. Later, you will learn to follow up with one of the Gentle Guidance Interventions (GGIs; Chapter 9) or Delayed Learning Opportunities (DLOs; Chapter 11), which will be accessible because you have a working pause button that allows you to remain calm enough to do positive things!

Notice that the use of a Calm Signal is responsive: it is prompted by some type of potential stress. Most commonly, this will be a negative behavior from a student. The rest of the Relationship-Building Strategies—the Argument Shield, Strategic Noticing, Modeling, and Bonding—are preventive. They will prevent negative behaviors so that the use of the Calm Signal and subsequent interventions will be less necessary. When used cumulatively, each strategy makes the other strategies more effective!

## The Argument Shield

A student may become frustrated when a teacher uses the Calm Signal and remains calm and relaxed throughout its use. After all, if the student is trying to gain control of the teacher’s emotions through negative behavior, the teacher’s lack of agitation can be annoying, and therefore the Calm Signal may actually increase some students’ frustration in the short term. The most common method that students may use to