248 The Classroom Behavior Manual

pause, perhaps for a very long period of time. This is time well spent for the student. They may be learning that any number of negative behaviors don’t work with their teacher. Behaviors like whining, playing dumb, or working slowly all will be revealed to be nonfunctional for the student.

The simplicity of tasks involved with Practice and Problem-Solving DLOs makes both monitoring and scaffolding easier. Situational Problem-Solving DLOs may be slightly more involved. A 6th grade student making a plan for another student to feel safe may take more involved scaffolding, but again, always err on the side of students suffering through work that is difficult instead of offering more support than is needed. Prioritize your work ahead of that being done by the student.

If you feel that a student is causing serious problems for you and your stress level, rub your eyes. Perhaps groan about how you are getting stressed out and say your DLO Delaying Script. Then ignore the student. Let the student suffer. In this case, the student is imposing the suffering upon themselves by using negative behaviors. If you stay sad and empathetic enough, the student may be able to connect their use of negative behaviors with their own suffering and realize it is inevitable that continued negative behaviors will not get them what they want. The DLO will occur later.

One highly effective way to scaffold for a Practice DLO is to treat the DLO like a video game, using difficulty levels. This can be especially effective for students who you feel are not yet skilled enough to practice without more intensive scaffolding. For the 1st grade student who has trouble not running out of the room, for instance, you can add onto the script above by saying the following:

Right now, you are struggling so much that I’m not yet sure if you could stay in the room without some help. This is going to be like a video game. We will begin on “easy,” where I will sit and do my work while sitting in the doorway. This will help remind you to stay in the room. Since you picked 30 minutes, “easy” level will be for 10 minutes. Then you can get to “medium” level. On “medium,” I will move from the doorway to be next to the doorway for another 10 minutes, and this may still remind you to stay in the room. Then will be “boss” level, when I will go and sit down at my desk and leave the door wide open. If you can stay in the room for the entire 30 minutes, you will have said to me with your actions, “I can stay in the room! I am an expert!” Then you will be all done, and you can move on with your life!