Relationship-Building Strategies 47

Remember, it takes at least two people to have an argument. If you use this strategy, you are guaranteed to never be one of those people!

# Strategic Noticing

Human beings repeat behaviors that are noticed. Noticing a student’s behavior makes them more likely to repeat that behavior. This is true of both positive and negative behaviors. Not only are noticed behaviors repeated, but they are often explored and heightened; students who see that a behavior elicited attention are likely to experiment with using that same behavior in a slightly different or enhanced way.

The 11th grade student who is noticed saying “thank you” by the principal will be more likely not only to say “thank you” to a teacher later that day, but also to explore using similar polite behaviors, such as saying “please” when asking the lunch server for extra mashed potatoes. The student will also be more likely to heighten these polite behaviors by calling a teacher “ma’am” or even writing an unsolicited thank-you email.

Conversely, a 1st grade student who is noticed poking a classmate under the table is more likely to do it again. Furthermore, the student will be more likely to explore similar behaviors in the “violence” genre, perhaps pushing another student in line. The student is also more likely to heighten the level of violence; perhaps being noticed will lead the student to experiment with punching another student in the face.

Educators need to systematically notice positive behaviors in order to encourage them, while simultaneously ignoring (when possible) or giving minimal attention to negative behaviors. Unfortunately, in nearly all schools, negative behaviors are noticed more than positive behaviors. This is why behaviors tend to get worse in every classroom every year, from fall to spring. It is why the worst-behaved students in any school are often the oldest students: they have had negative behaviors noticed for the longest amount of time, so they use the most negative behaviors. Teachers are accidentally and systematically training kids to be worse every day by noticing negative behaviors but not positive behaviors.

In practice, many of us fail to pay attention to positive behaviors because, by definition, those behaviors do not cause a problem, so they do not need to be addressed. The result is that nearly all teachers ignore most positive behaviors while encouraging negative behaviors. This dynamic causes more dysfunction than any other factor in education. Without “flipping” this dynamic—without systematically practicing the Strategic Noticing of positive behaviors and minimizing the attention given to negative behaviors—the average student behaviors will get worse month by month and year by year.