Gentle Guidance Interventions 193

Remember to have fun. These GGIs will not only make your life easier but also make your "impossible choices" a thing of the past.

## Eye Interventions

The first four interventions involve merely looking at students. They are called "Eye Interventions." The benefits of Eye Interventions are that they take no time or energy: you can continue teaching while you use them. The weakness of these GGIs is that the student must be looking at you. Of course, use these whenever possible. If you can change a student’s behavior just by looking at them, why would you do anything else?

1. Curious Eye. Simply look at a student with a curious look. This, as with all interventions, stimulates student thinking. ("Why’s the teacher looking at me? Oh, maybe I should stop doing this.")

2. Confused Eye. Look at a student with the most confused look that you can muster. With just one look, this intervention separates the student from the behavior. It says to the student, "You are so wonderful, and that behavior is not wonderful. What’s happening? I’m confused."

3. Evil Eye. All parents and teachers seem to have this one in their tool belt.

4. Crazy Eye. This one is extra-fun! Make your face look as crazy as possible as you look at the student. How much thinking would this stimulate on the part of the target student—and everyone else, for that matter? There is only room for one crazy person in any situation. When working with students, be that person first!

## Reactive Movement Interventions

Interventions #5–10 involve stopping behaviors using teacher movement. This is in contrast to the Preventive Movement strategy described in Chapter 4, which prevents negative behaviors before they start. To an observer, they would look the same. The only difference is that Reactive Movement Interventions occur in response to a negative behavior.

5. Reactive Movement. Move nonchalantly toward the site of the negative behavior without drawing any attention to it with eye contact or verbal reaction.

6. Hover. Simply stop your movement next to the site of the negative behavior. Do not initiate eye contact, but if the student attempts to initiate it, smile.