Before You Begin 21

## Consequences Within Procedures

Building relationships and sharing control makes it very likely that even the most difficult students will be cooperative most of the time. However, even the best-behaved students have bad days. When students slip up and forget to follow the procedures, or in the first weeks, when students are more likely to deliberately challenge the procedures, you must deliver appropriate consequences with empathy.

To make it as easy as possible to be calm but assertive, consequences are woven into the procedures themselves. These consequences within the procedures are called Procedural Learning Opportunities or PLOs. By holding students accountable through appropriate consequences, students will learn that, although we love them and will grant them their fair share of control, we are in charge. Consequences for not being cooperative and not following classroom procedures are systematically and explicitly taught throughout this book.

## A Realistic Book for Real-World Classrooms

I wrote this book because it was the book that I needed but did not have when I started teaching. I knew that my students needed to work hard, treat me well, and treat one another well. I think I even knew that my students would never behave any better than I did. The conundrum for me was the same problem that other teachers, particularly those working with difficult students, face: you cannot be the teacher you want to be if you do not know how to get your students to exhibit prosocial behaviors in the classroom. Teachers who spend every day dealing with antisocial behaviors cannot themselves sustain the positive behaviors that they want to model for their students. Rather, they end up exhibiting the same negative behaviors that they want to stop, thus perpetuating the cycle of dysfunctional, antisocial behavior.

To gain students’ cooperation in the classroom, teachers must create an environment where prosocial, positive, and functional behaviors are consistently used and modeled by both teachers and students. To do so, we need to understand two facts. First, children have a strong need for quality relationships in general and with an authority figure specifically. Second, children, like all people, have a strong need for control and will rebel or resist when their control needs aren’t met. I needed a realistic book that taught me how to use Relationship-Building and Control-Sharing Procedures and Strategies in real-world classrooms with real-life students.

So I wrote it.