246 The Classroom Behavior Manual

room and have some time to interact before you arrive at the location for the DLO, optimally a place free from the presence of the student’s peers or unfamiliar adults.

Sitting down in an assertive position will show the student that you are relaxed and in charge of the situation. It will also tell your brain the same thing. To sit in an assertive position, sit in a chair with your legs extended out in front of you, heels down, toes up. Lean back in the chair. Put your hands behind your head, elbows out, with your fingers interwoven behind your head.

Once you are situated, use your Calm Signal to make sure you are emotionally regulated and to increase the odds that the student is emotionally regulated. Draw the Calm Signal out: start with a very deep inhale and then say the Calm Signal especially slowly as you exhale. It may help to rub your eyes or face or stretch out your arms toward the ceiling the way you might when you wake up in the morning.

You are ready to speak.

For a Practice DLO, you may say something to the effect of the following:

> Hey. You are really struggling with not running out of the room when you get frustrated. I’m not mad at you. It’s just important that everyone in the classroom become an expert at staying in the room. Since you presently struggle with this, I’m going to give you the chance to become an expert at staying in the room. I am going to simply have you sit, stand, or lie down somewhere in the room and practice not leaving. You can read or do work, or just stare at the wall and think your thoughts. Whatever you want to do that doesn’t cause a problem is fine, just as long as you are in the room.

For a Problem-Solving DLO, you may say something like this:

> All righty, dude. I gotta tell you, you really caused a problem for me last week when you kept interrupting me during algebra class. I’m not angry about it, and I know you get excited to answer questions. While I love that you get excited, it just stresses me out when I can’t teach. I have been so stressed out that I have not had it in me to put together the class homework folders for next week. I’m going to ask you to do it in order to distress me.

At this point, it is time to systematically give away control to the student. Do this for every consequence. For the Practice DLO above, you can give the student a choice on how long they need to practice:

> How long will it take you to become an expert at staying in the room: 20 minutes or 45 minutes?