208 The Classroom Behavior Manual

for a show of hands.] OK, because of this problem I have, I have placed Mindfulness Centers in the room. One is here [point] and one is there [point]. From time to time, you may see me walk over to a Mindfulness Center and sit and breathe. Or you may see me stand right in front of the chair and do yoga. Mostly, I am telling you this so you don’t think that your teacher has gone crazy. When I do this, it just means that my brain isn’t quite working right and that I need to take a break from my job, calm my brain down, and relax.

I want to apologize in advance, because when I am really frustrated, or tired, or overwhelmed, or sad, or whatever, I may stay over there for a long time, if that’s how long it takes to get my brain working right. I won’t talk to you all when I am taking one of these breaks, and I just ask that you ignore me when I’m back there. My being back there is telling you that I can’t handle teaching right then, so I’ll ask you to please leave me alone and just keep working. I’ll try not to, but if I have to go take a break when I’m in the middle of teaching, I will just ask that, if I don’t come back after around one minute, you start on your News and Laters. I thank you in advance for not causing problems while I’m getting myself back together. I promise that I will come back as soon as I am able. Just know that, if I take a break, it doesn’t mean I’m angry at you or that I am not OK. I’m just needing a break.

Here’s the deal: a lot of hands went up when I asked if you have ever been so mad or sad or hurt or frustrated that you couldn’t handle being part of the class. I get it, believe me. I’m going to let you also use these spots if you ever feel like I feel sometimes. Some of you will never need them, and that’s fine. Some of you will need them, and that’s fine, too. Use them whenever you want. You don’t have to ask. Just like when I’m in there, please completely ignore whoever is in the Mindfulness Center so they can chill out and come back when they are ready. You can stay as long as you need to; just know though that you are still responsible for all the work that you miss. Please don’t bring anything over there, and come back whenever you are ready!

Now, as a kid expert, and as someone who often has to take breaks myself, I am incredibly skilled at telling when a kid might need to take a break. In fact, I may notice that you need to take a break even before you notice that you need to take a break. I may give you a little nudge or ask if you need to take a break. If I ask, don’t be offended. You can either go