242 The Classroom Behavior Manual

itate (forced mindfulness misses the point!). They should be, as always, given the choice to use the center in any way that does not cause a problem.

Students who refuse to go to a Mindfulness Center should practice going to a center over and over again. After that, they should practice sitting at the Mindfulness Center for an extensive period of time. Similarly, students who attempt to talk to or bother students in the Mindfulness Center should practice not bothering others in the center.

The amount of time and/or effort required for these DLOs should be substantial, because taking away from the effectiveness of Mindfulness Breaks can create a catastrophic environment and chaos.

## Delivering DLOs

Here is where the rubber meets the road!

You should have a tremendous number of questions about DLOs. Thus far you have only seen instructions on how to delay learning opportunities and what the learning opportunities should be. Exactly how to deliver these DLOs and make it inevitable that your students learn these essential lessons will be the focus of the remainder of this chapter. We will go into detail about how long to delay the learning opportunity, how to decide upon the amount of practice or problem solving needed, how to give the DLO, how to handle student attempts at argument, how to give away healthy control while giving DLOs, how to monitor and scaffold while present for DLOs, when and how to schedule the DLO session, and how to create and use inevitability logistics for when students experiment with refusing to take part in a DLO.

The central goal in the delivery of DLOs is that you are able to create a feeling of inevitability within your students. They need to understand that from the moment you utter your Calm Signal and DLO Delaying Script, the fact that they will be experiencing a DLO sometime in the future is 100 percent inevitable.

### How Long Should I Delay Learning Opportunities?

There are three considerations when determining how long to delay the DLO. They are listed here in order of importance:

1. Developmental appropriateness. It is best to deliver the DLO while the student is able to remember their DLO-worthy behavior (keep in mind that the vast majority of the time that students say they forgot it, they are merely attempting to get out of the DLO). To decide whether it is likely that a student has forgotten the DLO-worthy behavior, use the ice cream test: if you think the