Delayed Learning Opportunities 251

Now to the logistics. If a student refusing to be cooperative with a DLO is learning, nothing needs to be done because the lesson is in progress. This is the optimal scenario. The student is learning while you get work done, eat lunch, check your phone, and so on. The student is learning, and you are taking care of yourself. Ignore and monitor the student simultaneously, but there’s no need for teaching or scaffolding—the student is teaching themselves.

Use Strategic Noticing if positive behaviors occur. For instance, imagine a student who is supposed to be practicing staying seated and listening, but is instead choosing to run around the room screaming. When the student takes a break to catch their breath in their seat, notice this positive, although perhaps nearly accidental, behavior: “I noticed you sitting in your seat.” Then immediately state, “I am starting the clock on your practice time—30 minutes to go. I’ll keep counting as long as you are silently in your seat.” Do not praise the student. If the student starts running around again, ignore them. If they continue to sit silently, notice it again, exactly the same way: “I noticed you sitting in your seat.” Notice every few minutes. Slightly decrease the noticing as the student gets nearer to the behavioral goal. By ignoring the negative, belligerent behaviors and noticing the positive, you will make positive behaviors more likely and negative behaviors less likely.

Remember that students who are refusing are students who are learning! I once had a student refuse to sit and be kind to me for five recesses in a row. Every other day, he experimented with sitting in his seat, which I noticed. On the sixth recess, he sat from the beginning. He practiced perfectly for 17 minutes that recess and 3 minutes the next recess. He became an official expert at sitting silently and being nice to me and maintained expert status for the rest of the year.

As long as the refusing student remains in the DLO location, the student is learning the lesson we want them to learn. This is even more true if the student is destroying property or yelling, if we deal with it properly (see below). What we want to avoid, if possible, is the student leaving the DLO location. Once the student leaves a DLO location, the mere act of not being in that location anymore reinforces the refusing behavior. If an adult gives attention to the student, that reinforcement is significantly more destructive. Put another way, the student is learning cooperation while in the DLO location.

If you are concerned that the student may leave the DLO location, you should sit in the doorway while working and using the above ignoring, monitoring, and noticing strategies (unless your school has rules that specifically prohibit this). Be nonchalant, and do not warn the student about leaving the room. Only a tiny fraction