Delayed Learning Opportunities 255

them. Create and enforce limits early so that your students don’t spend the entire year trying to figure out where the limits are!

## When It Feels Like DLOs Are Not Working

If it seems as though you are repeatedly using DLOs to address the same behaviors over and over again, here is a simple checklist of questions to ask yourself to make sure you are not making some common mistakes:

1. Am I trying to use DLOs in a vacuum? If you are trying to use DLOs without using the rest of the procedures and strategies in this book, they won’t be very effective, because there won’t be enough prevention or mitigation going on. Similarly, if you are using only a few parts of the book, DLOs will tend to pile up. If this is the case, concentrate your efforts on just two or three procedures or strategies (you cannot neglect Strategic Noticing and be successful, for example).

2. Am I remembering to delay my DLOs? Remember that students won’t be likely to learn anything and may react with explosive behavior if you attempt to institute a learning opportunity immediately after a DLO-worthy negative behavior.

3. Am I always using my Calm Signal when I delay and when I give a DLO? If not, the student will not be as calm as they could be, you won’t be as calm as you should be, the student probably won’t be able to learn anything, and you probably won’t be able to teach anything.

4. Is my DLO a logical learning opportunity that teaches, or is it a punishment that just causes pain? If you have accidentally created a punishment, a student is likely to dig in and be endlessly resistant because they feel that they have lost what they will perceive as a power struggle.

5. Has the student learned enough? This is the most common mistake educators make. Usually, very difficult students will use their old negative behaviors over and over in multiple failed attempts to get what they want. That is who difficult students are: they have gotten what they wanted for a long period of time through repeated negative behaviors, so they will continue to make these attempts for longer than other students would. These students will need to see a pattern of behavior from you that shows them (not tells them) that when you say you will hold them accountable, you will. Remember that the