170 The Classroom Behavior Manual

with 45 minutes to go. After a couple of whispered uses of the Class Head Down PLO, everyone sat with their heads down silently, and I got 44½ minutes of grading done.

I also never had to shut them down again.

## Preventive Movement

As detailed in Chapter 4, Preventive Movement is an essential part of the Real-World Workshop procedure. Make sure that you are moving around as much as is feasible for you. Instructing, grading, and holding students accountable for their Nows while walking around with a gradebook is one great way to prevent negative behaviors with your movement.

Instructing, grading, and teaching from a seated position at your desk and, optionally, from a reading table also has its advantages, especially if you can have several students immediately around you. When you lead the class from this position, it is important to occasionally do a Preventive Sweep by getting up and moving around the room before sitting back at your table or desk. The goal of both of these Preventive Movement strategies is to create intermittent reinforcement so your students will have to think twice about negative behaviors, since you could be just around the corner.

## Strategic Noticing

This strategy, also detailed in Chapter 4, is likewise essential to Real-World Workshop. One simple statement can be used to supercharge the effectiveness of this procedure:

I noticed you using the right voice level.

Refer to Chapter 4 for more about the “why” of Strategic Noticing and with which students this should be private/individual, public/individual, or whole group, but this statement should be made every four minutes, at least, at the beginning of the year during Workshop.

Your students want to be noticed. Even older students will often get visibly happier when they are on the receiving end of Strategic Noticing. Your difficult students have been noticed in the past for being loud in class; that is why they have been loud in class in the past. By noticing them having the appropriate voice levels over and over again, you are giving them and everyone around them instructions about how they can use their voice level to get attention in your classroom.