196 The Classroom Behavior Manual

**19. Desk Tap.** This is exactly the same GGI as the Work Tap, except you simply tap the desk to refocus the student.

**20. Contraband Tap.** Contraband is something that is, on its face, illegal. Cocaine and plutonium, for example, are illegal to possess. In classrooms, some other things are never allowed, for example, cell phones, trading cards, or food. The possession of contraband in classrooms needlessly causes power struggles for educators who aren’t using GGIs. Instead of making demands of students, simply tapping the contraband while walking by can give the student an opportunity to put away the phone, the food, or the Lebron James card while saving face and not being threatened. Only look at the contraband enough to make contact with your fingers—two gentle taps on the object, and never make eye contact with the student. Again, do not stop moving before, during, or after the tap.

**21. Problem Stimuli Tap.** This works exactly the same way as Contraband Tap but does not involve something that is inherently disallowed in the classroom. Instead, it involves something that has become a problem because of the way it is being used. A slap-bracelet that is being used not as wrist décor but for its slapping properties on another student and a pencil that is being used for its poking properties have both become “problem stimuli.” Just tap them and walk away.

Notice that GGIs #1–21 have allowed the student the opportunity to correct their own behavior without it being “corrected” in any way! Remember psychological reactance? Being corrected, as anyone can attest, is unpleasant. This is even more true for students with a high ACE score. Using GGIs #1–21 allows teachers to sidestep this unpleasantness and the resistance that it can generate.

Notice that students who are able to change their behavior with the use of GGIs #1–21 were smart enough to do so? We know this because no one had to tell them what to do: they “told” themselves. This is called the “assumption of intelligence.” When you assume intelligence, students act smarter, and you build relationships with them. This idea stands in stark contrast to the implicit “assumption of stupidity” aligned with traditional discipline practices, when teachers demand that students do things that they already know they should be doing. It hurts relationships and tends to make students act like their IQs are lower than they actually are.

You should have a very good reason to use a GGI above #21. Don’t correct students unless you have to.