7

# Transitions: The Lock-It-In Procedure

It goes without question that our goal is for all of our students to use prosocial behaviors while transitioning efficiently from one activity to the next. But that will never happen with students whose negative behaviors during transitions get them attention, allow them to feel free of consequences, give them the feeling of control over their teacher’s emotions, and get them positive regard from their peers. Only when students are unable to get these things as a result of their negative behaviors will they turn to using positive behaviors to get what they—and we—want.

Unfortunately, traditional means of attempting to elicit positive behaviors from students during transitions often produce the opposite results—and the worse the behavior, the more students reap the negative benefits, and the worse it will continue to get. From repeatedly stating the rules, to bossing students around, to punishing them, to lecturing them, to sending them to the principal’s office, traditional methods for trying to get students to comply fail them, and most profoundly fail the most difficult students.

The reason for this failure is twofold. First, difficult students, by definition, are the “behavioral pioneers” who will challenge the rules first and most often, so they will have their antisocial behaviors most often reinforced. No wonder teachers often say that they have “tried everything” with a student, and nothing seems to be working. The reason is that the methods being tried are inherently ineffective, so the more you use them, the worse the behavior will get.

129