Academic Control-Sharing Procedures 153

although it applies only to teams who have not yet completed it. Under those circumstances, your board will look like this:

```
Nows
Math book, page 1, #6-12
Unanimously decide on a team nickname
Laters
Create team tags
Read
?
```

In circumstances like this one, teams will tend to discuss the name while they do their academic Now. Accept their choice at any time.

As students complete their Now, they will, one at a time, be able to move on to their Laters. It is essential that you don’t allow students to do Laters until they have completed their Nows. Also, make sure that the Nows are done to whatever level of quality that you require. Keep in mind that this procedure has already given you significantly more time and mental bandwidth with which to hold students accountable, since you are no longer trying to convince, cajole, bribe, or lecture students into working.

Have students demonstrate accountability in any way that works for you; whatever you have done in the past will be easier to do now due to this procedure. Here are some strategies that have worked for me during my career, starting with the most time-consuming and ending with the least time-consuming.

1. Grade for 100 percent mastery. In short, students need to get everything right to show that they completely grasp the standard being practiced. This works quite well for certain elementary school math lessons or for PE lessons of all levels, for example. Keep sending the student back until the work is perfect. Write down scores in a gradebook.
2. Grade for a certain level of proficiency. Using an established rubric, have a certain level of proficiency necessary for you to accept a Now. Send the student back if they do not meet that minimal standard. Write down scores in a gradebook.
3. Just make sure it’s not garbage. This is a lower level of scrutiny. It is helpful for when you can grade the work later and, frankly, when you are especially busy. Using this method, you have students submit work to you, you look at it to make sure that the writing/math/art is not a travesty against humanity, and, if not, you accept it. You can simply put a dot in the correct spot in your