104 The Classroom Behavior Manual

because just giving these instructions puts the HCNC into fight-or-flight mode. They immediately feel a loss of control and become determined to get it back.

However, if we give an HCNC the opportunity to gain control, the student will do whatever works to get that control. In this case, Juriah had such a need for control that he did what no one in his life thought was possible: he acted responsibly. In fact, he acted more responsibly with his job than anyone else!

The reality was that Juriah did not have a learning disability, and our school was exactly where he belonged. He just needed—not wanted, but needed—a huge amount of control. No other teacher had given him what he needed. He spent nearly every moment of his school career, up to the moment I shook his hand on the first day of 3rd grade, trying to get his control needs met in unhealthy ways.

This is not to say that I gave Juriah any of the control that I wanted. I did no such thing. In fact, I was incredibly strict with Juriah, as I was with the other students in the class, and I only gave them the control that I didn’t need anyway, using procedures and strategies that allowed me to have more time and energy to do my job.

Juriah, the student who was supposed to be incorrigible and stupid, thrived in my room. He had a lot of learning to do, and he tested limits, as HCNCs do. By the time he was fired on that 177th day of class, he had been given enough control and limits that he was able to take the disappointment, hire his best friend for the last two days of breakfast prompting, and move on.

Juriah’s former teacher had told me how glad she was to see Juriah go on the last day of school the previous year. My last day with him was quite different. On my last day with Juriah, I could not bear to let him go. He was leaving for another school, and I feared I would never see him again. I walked him to his bus, as I did every day. We gave each other a hug, which, being big, tough men, we had never done before. I told him that I loved him, and then he said the last words that he would ever say to me: “I love you, Mr. Ervin.”

**************

Control-Sharing Procedures allow you to keep the control that you do need by giving away the control that you don’t need. The control you need is determined by one factor: what you feel like you need. If any of the following procedures makes you cringe because you don’t want to give that specific kind of control away, don’t use it. All of the procedures and strategies in this book are designed to train students to use positive, prosocial behaviors with a minimal use of your energy and time. They are