Delayed Learning Opportunities 231

your Calm Signal and walk away. That’s it. Do not use the rest of your script. You will still give a DLO later.

Remember that the DLO procedure is to be done in the context of the previously described highly preventive procedures and strategies. In addition, GGIs will be used to guide students away from needing most DLOs and create a classroom without the yelling and bossing around of students. Furthermore, if you follow this part of the DLO procedure, you will be minimizing the amount of explosive behaviors from students. If you are concerned that you may forget that you have delayed a DLO, write it down. You may even want to have a clipboard that you can use to jot down notes about DLOs.

Finally, once all students understand that the application of the DLO is inevitable, just the continued use of the DLO Delaying Script will stop negative behaviors. This will become even more true once students comprehend that continuing to use negative behaviors after the DLO Delaying Script will intensify the DLO, since the student is communicating to the teacher that the student needs to learn more. The importance of these lessons cannot be understated for a teacher trying to manage behaviors while teaching. Eventually, the students will be so well-conditioned that the mere use of the Calm Signal will stop the negative behaviors, even from the most (now formerly) belligerent students. How quickly this happens will depend on how well you follow these instructions.

The difference between having a chance to live a happy, productive life and not getting cooperation from students through any means at all is the difference between life and death for teachers and their students. For teachers, the inability to act with certainty will create cortisol secretion that will age you, kill brain cells, and may lead to premature death. For students, learning to use positive, prosocial behaviors is the difference between living a happy, productive life or facing a lifetime of being beaten down by a world that does not take kindly to the repeated use of antisocial behaviors.

The only effective way for learning to take place is for teacher and student to be able to teach and learn in a calm environment.

## What If They Just Go Berserk?

By using the procedures and strategies in this book, you are doing everything you can do to build relationships and share control to effectively prevent explosive behaviors from students. In addition, using the DLO process and differentiating for the most explosive students will further reduce the instances whereby students will use totally out-of-control and belligerent behavior.