Relationship-Building Strategies 63

2. Use your Calm Signal to calm you and your student down enough to be in an optimal state of mind.

3. Listen without interrupting.

4. Pause before responding.

If you don’t have time in the moment, let them know that they deserve more attention than you can give in the moment, make a note, and make an appointment to talk to them later. This listening strategy shows your students that you care about them and about what they have to say, and that you are truly there for them.

# Physical Contact

When and how you have physical contact with your students may be dictated by school policy, personal comfort, the needs of individual students, and a host of other issues, and should be done within the parameters set by your administrators and at your own risk. Nevertheless, safe physical contact with students is an essential element of bonding with them. The minimal essential amount of physical contact with students has already been woven into the fabric of your classroom if you are using the ESPN Greeting and Goodbye procedures (Chapter 5). As a teacher, I very often would have physical contact with students as a means of encouragement, of celebration, and to show calm.

A pat on the back can be great when a student is working but needs some encouragement to persist at something that is difficult. A hand on the shoulder while leaning into the student may help get a student over an emotional hump, perhaps when working on something that is a bit dry (e.g., a test prep exercise, a vocabulary quiz). For younger students, leaning on them while waiting at the head of the line or even resting your arm on top of a student’s head can both build relationships and communicate calm “alpha-ness.”

# Giving Your Time Outside School

In addition to going out of your way at school, going out of your way for your students outside school hours has a profoundly positive bonding effect with students. Taking time for students when we are not contractually obligated to shows them that we want to be around them even when we don’t have to. The problem, of course, is how to do this while living our own lives. The answer is to use your time outside school to