Relationship-Building Procedures 91

4. **Reward suggested rules to use affirmative language.** Be sure to explain to students what you are doing (“Let’s just state that in the affirmative”). For example:
   - Revise “Don’t hit people” to “Be nonviolent with your hands.”
   - Revise “Don’t talk while others are talking” to “Stay quiet while others are talking.”

5. **Allow enough time that each student can each make two to three suggestions.** In addition, refrain from limiting the number of suggestions that one student may propose. The students who keep adding rules are likely the ones who need the most control. By letting them suggest numerous rules, you are giving them that control.

6. **When students run out of suggestions, review your list.**

7. **Express sincere appreciation for having so many wonderful rules.** Then express dismay that there are too many rules. Ask students if any of the rules can be combined. There are no human students in existence who need to be convinced that there are too many rules and that they should get rid of most of them. If they have trouble suggesting a combination, model an example:
   - “Listen to the teacher” and “Listen to each other” can be combined as “Listen when people are talking.” Any rule beginning with “Listen” can eventually be combined simply to “Listen.”
   - “Be nonviolent with your hands” and “Be nonviolent with your body” can be combined as “Be kind” and “Be safe.” These can further be combined as “Be respectful.” (See Figure 5.1.)

8. **As you combine rules, be sure to explain your reasoning.** If a student suggests a combination, ask the student to share the reason. You want to make sure that the students who suggested a rule understand why it is being combined with another rule so that they don’t feel alienated by the process. Erasing specific rules and replacing them with general rules lets students see the process by which they are creating a fair way to govern their classroom. It’s democracy in action!

9. **Address rules that will not serve the class well.** You are likely to get some of these, especially with older students. Do not reject a rule unless it is inappropriate or malicious. Suggesting rules like “You can throw balls” or “Yell as loudly as you want” is a way for students to test the procedure’s authenticity—and yours. It is important to pass these tests, so let the suggested rules stand until this point. Then, pick a positive rule that contradicts as many