30 The Classroom Behavior Manual

6. Review your initial team plan and make any adjustments needed—before school starts. Some considerations before you finalize your arrangements:
- Do not put students who have had major problems with each other in the past on the same team.
- Do not put the “class bully” on the same team as the “class victim.”
- Do assign “Blue-Collar Bullies” and “White-Collar Bullies” to the same team (see sidebar).

## Bullies and Where to Put Them

Although hybrids exist, bullies tend to come in one of two forms. Where to put the bullies in your classroom depends on how you identify them.
- **Threatening Bully (TB)**. This bully is your rough-and-tough “give me your lunch money” type. TBs use the blunt instruments of physical threats and violence to intimidate students that they perceive as smaller and weaker. Oftentimes, these students are not subtle about their bullying.
- **Sneaky Bully (SB)**. This bully uses insults, backstabbing, and gossip to bully other students. SBs tend to be subtler than their TB counterparts. They know how to manipulate teachers and others by presenting appropriate, prosocial behavior, so they can be more difficult to spot.

When creating teams (and seating charts), keep in mind that TBs often neutralize SBs. SBs might be weaker (physically and emotionally). Particularly among younger students, SBs are often physically intimidated by the mere presence of TBs. An SB will usually avoid a TB as well as those students who are friendly with the TB. In this way, friends or supporters of the TB often fall under the TB’s protective umbrella. In addition, the TB is less likely to intimidate other students when positioned to protect other students against an SB. The TB feels a relatively healthy sense of control in this instance.