Mindfulness Breaks 207

want, and demonstrate and practice with students. It’s probably a good idea to do some type of mindfulness activity every morning, or every class, for middle and high school students.

Introduce the concept of mindfulness in whatever way you like or in whatever way a program that you like suggests. Give students the option to use certain mindfulness activities whenever they wish (make sure that you only allow activities that won’t cause a problem for you; if a student doing Sun Salutation at their desk during your instructions will bother you or others, don’t allow it). Many teachers allow students to close their eyes at their desks and deep breathe whenever they want.

The other important element in teaching your students about mindfulness is to make sure that your introduction is not in any way connected to Mindfulness Breaks. The emphasis of the introduction needs to be on using mindfulness to prevent your brain from being hijacked by difficult situations. If you connect the concept primarily to using it to cope once you are so upset that you can no longer function as a member of the group, students will tend to wait too long to try it. You will also see in the directions for using the Mindfulness Breaks intervention below that you should only briefly mention mindfulness activities as a part of the intervention. Emphasize that students should use Mindfulness Breaks when they need to calm their minds, but emphasize that they should do so preventively and before they get too frustrated!

## Introduction to Students

The introduction of the Mindfulness Breaks procedure should occur on the first day, after the first yoga/breathing instruction, but not immediately after this instruction. You do not want students to primarily associate mindfulness and breathing with Mindfulness Breaks. It is best for people to think of and practice mindfulness and yoga primarily as something preventive for good health and self-care.

The following is how I introduced Mindfulness Breaks in my class. Make this script your own, but be sure to project a casual, kind, relaxed manner.

OK, folks, I want to talk with you all about something important. I want to explain a problem that I have and a way that I deal with my problem. Sometimes I get frustrated. Sometimes I get upset. This is especially true here at work. It may be easy for you all to forget, but I am at work right now, and work can be frustrating. Sometimes, because I have too many things to do, or because I didn’t get enough sleep, or because something bad is going on in my life, I get so frustrated that I feel like I can’t even be part of the class. Raise your hand if this has ever happened to you. [Look