1703 N. Beauregard St. • Alexandria, VA 22311-1714 USA  
Phone: 800-933-2723 or 703-578-9600 • Fax: 703-575-5400  
Website: www.ascd.org • Email: member@ascd.org  
Author guidelines: www.ascd.org/write  

Ranjit Sidhu, CEO & Executive Director; Penny Reinhart, Chief Impact Officer; Genny Ostertag, Managing Director, Book Acquisitions & Editing; Allison Scott, Senior Acquisitions Editor; Julie Houtz, Director, Book Editing; Megan Doyle, Editor; Thomas Lytle, Creative Director; Donald Ely, Art Director; Masie Chong, Graphic Designer; Keith Demmons, Senior Production Designer; Kelly Marshall, Production Manager; Shajuan Martin, E-Publishing Specialist  

Copyright © 2022 Scott Ervin. All rights reserved. It is illegal to reproduce copies of this work in print or electronic format (including reproductions displayed on a secure intranet or stored in a retrieval system or other electronic storage device from which copies can be made or displayed) without the prior written permission of the publisher. By purchasing only authorized electronic or print editions and not participating in or encouraging piracy of copyrighted materials, you support the rights of authors and publishers. Readers who wish to reproduce or republish excerpts of this work in print or electronic format may do so for a small fee by contacting the Copyright Clearance Center (CCC), 222 Rosewood Dr., Danvers, MA 01923, USA (phone: 978-750-8400; fax: 978-646-8600; web: www.copyright.com). To inquire about site licensing options or any other reuse, contact ASCD Permissions at www.ascd.org/permissions or permissions@ascd.org. For a list of vendors authorized to license ASCD e-books to institutions, see www.ascd.org/epubs. Send translation inquiries to translations@ascd.org.  

ASCD® is a registered trademark of the Association for Supervision and Curriculum Development. All other trademarks contained in this book are the property of, and reserved by, their respective owners, and are used for editorial and informational purposes only. No such use should be construed to imply sponsorship or endorsement of the book by the respective owners.  

All web links in this book are correct as of the publication date below but may have become inactive or otherwise modified since that time. If you notice a deactivated or changed link, please email books@ascd.org with the words “Link Update” in the subject line. In your message, please specify the web link, the book title, and the page number on which the link appears.  

PAPERBACK ISBN: 978-1-4166-3078-4 ASCD product #122033 n2/22  
PDF E-BOOK ISBN: 978-1-4166-3079-1; see Books in Print for other formats.  
Quantity discounts are available; email programteam@ascd.org or call 800-933-2723, ext. 5773, or 703-575-5773. For desk copies, go to www.ascd.org/deskcopy.  

Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data  
Name: Ervin, Scott, author.  
Title: The classroom behavior manual : how to build relationships with students, share control, and teach positive behaviors / Scott Ervin.  
Description: Alexandria, Virginia USA : ASCD, [2021] | Includes bibliographical references and index.  
Identifiers: LCCN 2021042031 (print) | LCCN 2021042032 (ebook) | ISBN 9781416630784 (Paperback) | ISBN 9781416630791 (PDF)  
Subjects: LCSH: Classroom management—United States—Handbooks, manuals, etc. | School discipline—United States—Handbooks, manuals, etc.  
Classification: LCC LB3013 .E72 2021 (print) | LCC LB3013 (ebook) | DDC 371.102/40973—dc23  
LC record available at https://lccn.loc.gov/2021042031  
LC ebook record available at https://lccn.loc.gov/2021042032  
30 29 28 27 26 25 24 23 22 21 12 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12