172 The Classroom Behavior Manual

expectation of silence, you can use the PLOs for students who talk just like in Real-World Workshop. The only caveat to this is that if you are giving a nonmandated test and you use the head-down PLO, you must give that student the time back later (preferably during noninstructional time) so they have the same amount of time to finish testing as their classmates.

## Silent Sustained Reading

Use the Silent Work procedure for any Silent Sustained Reading (SSR) time. Without the procedure and PLOs, it is nearly impossible to have students read and work silently, as called for in many reading curricula, while the teacher works with small, usually leveled, groups. This is true for Silent Sustained Reading from preK through high school. Following are additional techniques that will enhance the Silent Work Procedure during SSR.

**Three weeks of modeling.** Kids have a hard time emulating what they have never seen, and some kids have never seen an adult read a book. If they have never seen an adult read a book, at worst, they might feel like they are having to read as some sort of punishment. At best, they may feel alienated from the process of reading. If they have never seen an adult read a book, they will never see reading as “just a thing that people do,” and they will be very likely to be resistant to reading. That is why, for the first three weeks of school, the only job assigned to you during Silent Work is to read a good book that you enjoy while following the procedure. Taking time to model reading during the first three weeks of school will result in getting that time back many times over throughout the year. In addition, you actually get to take care of yourself by relaxing with a good book in the middle of the school day!

**Lock it in.** If your curriculum calls for you to teach a reading lesson, do so at the beginning of your reading period or block. Once finished, dismiss your students to get books and begin Silent Work using the Lock-It-In procedure (see Chapter 7), taking special care to do it slowly enough that each team is mostly out of the way and reading before the next team is called.

If you have made it to the point where students are locking it in, start reading immediately after picking your Lock-It-Iner (the first student you see who is sitting quietly at a clean desk or whatever your expectation is).

An advanced move that will help you simultaneously build relationships, share ownership, and share control is to pick the Lock-It-Iner and direct them to dismiss you when you are ready: “Damien, you are ready. Could you lock it in? Remember to treat me like a team and dismiss me to Silent Work when you notice that I am ready.” Then sit at your desk or table if students are at their desks, or sit on the carpet if