Delayed Learning Opportunities 249

**What Do I Do When the Student Is Done Practicing or Solving a Problem?**

Act the same way you would if your student just mastered an academic standard. Be happy and excited. For a Problem-Solving DLO, thank them for solving the problem (or perhaps for distressing you or other students). For a Practice DLO, ask if the students are experts at their new positive behavior. In both cases, feel free to use another Strategic Noticing and give a high five, handshake, hug, or class handshake, whatever is appropriate for you. Congratulations, you have built your relationship with your students through their negative behavior!

**What Are Inevitability Logistics?**

The most common anxiety that teachers have when trying to hold students accountable through DLOs (or punishments, for that matter) is the worry that the students will refuse to take part in whatever accountability procedures the teacher creates. They will worry, for example, that a student will refuse to clean up a mess that they created, or practice a behavior, or distress a teacher’s aide. What then?

The irony is that, when handled correctly using the methods detailed below, student refusal of DLOs will be the means through which students will learn the most important lesson of their entire lives: the refusal of a reasonable request from an authority figure will not absolve you from responsibility for your actions and will not get you what you want.

It is virtually impossible to lead a happy, healthy, positive life without learning this lesson. A person who never learns this is not likely to be able to successfully complete elementary school, let alone high school. A person who never learns this will not be able to become and stay employed. It is common for a person who never learns this to end up in prison or suffer an early death.

Remember that by using the DLO Process within the context of all of the other procedures and strategies, we have systematically removed all obstacles that we possibly can that would stop a student’s brain from being able to learn this lesson. If the manual you are holding were a book of fiction, this would be the climax. While the book’s other procedures and strategies help to create a positive classroom environment, all roads lead to the inevitability of the DLOs. Either students will be cooperative and prosocial, or they will have to learn to be cooperative and prosocial. They have no choice in the matter.