Academic Control-Sharing Procedures 151

Later (see below) are appealing enough. However, if you turn doing the Nows into a power struggle, many students will refuse to do them just to win, no matter how appealing the Laters are.

Laters could include the following:

* Vocabulary-related word games
* Any number of computer-based academic games or activities
* Writing and sending a letter to a celebrity
* Math whiteboard challenges
* Delivering mail
* Any number of the hundreds of possible activities provided by your curriculum

## Celebrations: A Character Education “Later”

One Later that I always had available was Celebrations. Once they had completed their Nows, students could take a sticky note and write an example that they have seen of a schoolmate or teacher exemplifying a characteristic of good character: “I would like to celebrate DeMarcus for being respectful when he said ‘please’ and ‘thank you’ to the lunch server yesterday.” We always had a Celebrations Board available where students would post their Celebrations. Then during Afternoon Meeting, students who had posted Celebrations, if called on, would have an opportunity to read their Celebrations with the class.

## Mystery Later

The Mystery Later is a Later that is not shown to the students immediately. It is signified by a question mark below all other Laters. It is generally not academic, it is especially appealing, and it does not have to be provided every day, though the question mark should always be on the board. It is meant to do an especially effective job of encouraging students to complete their Nows to your satisfaction every day. It teaches the real-world lesson that when you work hard and get your work done, if a fantastic opportunity for fun presents itself, you can take advantage of it! Mystery Laters should usually be revealed on the board once most students who have been working hard are on their Laters. For self-contained classrooms, this will usually be during the last 45 minutes of your academic day. Mystery Laters could include activities like the following:

* Recess
* Play basketball with Principal Jones