144 The Classroom Behavior Manual

12. Kindergarten–2nd grade classes may take around six weeks before full student ownership.

**Pledges.** The TOD team captain has the honor of running the pledge or pledges. When prompted by the teacher, the team captain uses the Prompt for Quiet procedure (see Chapter 6). Remember, your students will be managing behaviors along with you, according to the procedures described in earlier chapters. They will take the lead, with your guidance; you will facilitate students setting limits on each other.

If your school does not do the Pledge of Allegiance all at once, do it at this time, led by the TOD team captain, and follow it with the Class Pledge.

**Schedule.** The TOD team captain then chooses another TOD member who is seated and ready. That TOD member can read the entire schedule, perhaps chorally with other students, as well as any lesson that is tied in with the revealing of the schedule (e.g., detecting patterns or rules). Keep in mind that students can learn practically anything if it is taught every day. For years, every one of my students was proficient in naming patterns and finding rules for operations because we did it every single day.

**Date.** The date should always be posted by the TOD somewhere in the room, and the next TOD member selected should announce the date. This can also be the time to share a daily fun fact, weird news, and so on.

**Weather.** The next selected TOD member can go over current, low, and high temperatures; atmospheric conditions; or even detailed weather forecasts. Draw data from thermometers and other meteorological instruments or from an online weather information source.

**Character education.** Many schools already have prescribed character education programs. These programs can be woven into the Morning Meeting and put here. One member of the team of the day can lead a discussion in any way that makes sense. The key is for the discussion leader to truly lead the discussion. For example, in my classroom, we used a “Word of the Week” format, where we would have a character education word (“respect,” “responsibility,” “self-discipline,” etc.) every week, and a student from the team of the day would lead a quick discussion about that word by asking questions like “What is the Word of the Week?” or “What does ‘responsibility’ mean to you?” or “Who can think of an example of someone being respectful?” You can help facilitate these discussions, but make sure the student takes the lead, insofar as they are able.

The next TOD member is the lead teacher in charge of reviewing the Quick Start Activity of the day. If and when necessary, you can assist, but giving the responsibility for the review to a student frees you up to use Gentle Guidance Interventions