Part III: Control-Sharing Procedures 105

meant to lower your stress level, not to increase it. Just remember that the more control we give away, the more we can keep for ourselves.

The parts of the procedures that give away control are preventive: they allow the teacher to systematically give away control in a healthy way. In addition, there is a reactive element: they also include Procedural Learning Opportunities (PLOs). These are consequences woven into the procedures themselves. A teacher, especially a teacher of difficult students, cannot simply ask children to follow a procedure and then hope and pray that they are cooperative. To this end, behavioral leadership procedures always give students two choices:

1. The student can be cooperative

or

2. The student can learn a lesson about how to use positive behaviors or be responsible.

Teachers can be calm when students are always faced with these two choices. Of course, when students are cooperative, it is easier to be calm, and it is easier to be calm when students are learning to be prosocial people by becoming better at using positive behaviors or becoming more responsible when they experiment with using antisocial behaviors. It is the third choice that we do not allow:

3. The student can get what they want by using antisocial behaviors.

It is very difficult, if not impossible, to watch students use antisocial behaviors to get what they want, since we know that this will destroy our classrooms and lead to tremendous suffering for the student in both the short and long terms.

This section details procedures for guiding students to choose between the first two choices while giving away the control that you don’t need, keeping the control that you do, and systematically applying consequences when students are not cooperative.