Student Job Procedures 107

* Arbitrarily forcing students to do jobs that they do not want does not teach any real-world lessons, since forced labor does not occur in a free society.
* Job charts teach students that everyone is entitled to a job, no matter how well they do that job.
* Job charts teach students that it is someone else’s place to seek them out and give them a job.

Benefits to implementing Student Job Procedures:

* There is no chart to make or maintain.
* Using Student Job Procedures takes little or no time or energy.
* The lack of a teacher-imposed chart or system sends the implicit message that the maintenance of the classroom is the job of the students.
* Students learn that it is easier to get jobs if people like you.
* Students learn that people are not entitled to a job.
* Students learn that people get to keep their jobs if they do them well.
* Students learn that if people do their jobs poorly, they will be fired.

## Student Jobs: Hiring, Training, and Firing Guidelines

### Hiring Procedure

Student Job Procedures require you only to hire the first job holder for each job, minimizing teacher effort and maximizing student responsibility and ownership. Hire that first student at random. Do not hire difficult students first. Do not hire easy students first. Do not use the threat of not hiring a student to try to change behaviors. All students have the right to an opportunity to have a job, though they do not have the right to keep that job. They also do not have a right to do every job.

When you hire a child for a job, simply hire them. Don’t lecture them about the job’s importance or the importance of employment in general. Simply say something to the effect of the following:

> I have a special job for you. It is yours if you want it, and it will help our classroom. You can have it as long as you do the job perfectly. If you forget to do it or do it poorly, I will fire you. Your job will be to ___________. Are you interested?