116 The Classroom Behavior Manual

You can then either begin the PLO right then and there, or move on with the lesson with the students still using antisocial behaviors. They will learn not to—later.

### PLOs during instructional time.
If you choose to, you can go through the PLO steps immediately. Very often, teachers will begin PLOs during instructional time because of how many students are exhibiting antisocial behaviors (talking, standing, or not cleaning up, for example). Implementing the Class PLO can usually get the number of students still using antisocial behaviors down below five so you can administer a Small-Group PLO later. If you wish to get back to teaching before your class can successfully practice responding to the prompt as a whole, delay the consequence and resume practice at a noninstructional time.

### PLOs during noninstructional time.
The other option is to administer this PLO during a noninstructional time. Possible noninstructional times for PLOs include before school, recess, lunch (never withhold food), after school, weekends, during a noninstructional school event, or during a behavioral Now (see page 158). Class PLOs can also be done during the Real-World Workshop procedure (see Chapter 8) if and when all students have completed their Nows. If using one of these times for consequences creates a burden that you don’t want to endure (you feel that Saturdays need to be a time for rest), or the use of this time does not fit into your or your administration’s value structure (you feel that kids should always be allowed to run around at recess), don’t use that time to give consequences. For students older than 5 without cognitive disabilities, you can wait days before giving a PLO; for students over 8, you can wait weeks. For kindergartners, you can wait until the next day. For students with cognitive disabilities, use your best professional judgment. Remember, delaying a PLO for even 15 minutes still gives you the benefits of delaying a consequence. Be in no rush to find a time that is convenient for you.

## PLOs as Practice Sessions
Procedural Learning Opportunities are essentially practice sessions for procedures that students haven’t yet mastered. When collecting and herding students to participate in this practice session, whether it’s your whole class or a small group, keep a smile on your face. You can use a prop, like a cup of coffee or a snack. These nonwork activities and your smile will give students the implicit message that you are not worried about the PLO, that this situation is not a problem for you, and that it might be a problem for them. You will be able to be calm because this and all other Delayed and Procedural Learning Opportunities always give students two choices, and two choices only: