Before You Begin 23

strategies per day rather than trying to memorize all of them and deciding which to use on the fly. As a teacher, you already juggle too much information at any given moment.

Here’s my advice on how to learn and use the strategies:

1. Read the book.
2. Ignore all strategies you don’t want to use. Never use them.
3. Write down each strategy that you like on a sticky note or sheet of paper.
4. For the first two weeks, before you start your school day, choose two strategies to use.
5. Each day, place a note listing the day’s strategies on your desk or table.
6. After the first two weeks, start incorporating more strategies each day—or continue to only use two per day, if that’s what you’re comfortable with.

By the end of the first three weeks, you should have a good command of all the strategies that you want to use so that you can deploy them as needed.

Again, I cannot emphasize enough that you should ignore any strategies and procedures that you don’t like or that you feel don’t fit your personality, teaching style, students, or class environment. Pick the ones that feel and work best for you.

## Keep Doing What You Have Been Doing

This may seem like a strange suggestion for a behavior manual to make. If you have teaching experience, keep using any and all systems and techniques that you feel are effective. Methods and processes that have worked for you in the past may continue to work for you in the future. After all, the entire reason I’m writing this manual is because I have found methods that work. Perhaps you have, too. You may even want to continue to use methods that don’t work (and you have plenty of these, or else you would not be reading this book) as a security blanket. Your stress level is an important variable in being able to be empathetic while holding kids accountable. As your confidence in the procedures and strategies grows, and as you see that the consequences within the procedures are far more effective than any other system, you will be able to abandon the less than effective methods that you have been using in an attempt to elicit positive behaviors.

## The Behavior Chart: How and When to Throw It Away

One of the most common ineffective means of eliciting positive behaviors is a behavior chart. For most teachers, behavior charts fall squarely in the category of “things I do that I know do not work but that make me feel slightly less out of control.”