Transitions: The Lock-It-In Procedure 131

continuously uncooperative. You don’t want to work too hard to save students from these consequences, since consequences are the best and most effective teachers of positive behavior.

While you are doing interventions, silently and with no external reaction, mentally note and “lock in” which team is silent and clean first. Then note which team is silent and clean second, then third, and so on. As soon as all teams are silent and clean, dismiss each team one at a time in the order in which they were ready. During this procedure, if a team is ready and they were locked in first, but a student on that team talked, they are no longer locked in, and the second team, in this case, moves up. (Don’t worry about the mental strain of this; no one will know if you confused the order since you are making these notes silently and mentally.)

Dismiss teams at a speed that does not create a traffic jam. The speed necessary to accomplish this will differ depending upon where the students begin and where they are going. Elementary students who are lining up at the door can be dismissed from their desks fairly quickly. High school students who can be released directly to the hall can be dismissed even faster.

The Lock-It-In procedure can be used for any transition, regardless of grade level. Remember that these transitions may be happening after a prompt for cleanup from the student or teacher. Once it is time for the actual transition, supplies, books, and trash should be taken care of already. The transition will not have to include putting anything away or cleaning up: those things will already have been done, and they will have been done in more of a relaxed environment, where students are able to talk and socialize while taking care of their classroom.

Remember that there have been no consequences for slow transitioners. Those consequences will happen naturally, either by not being prepared to transition during Lock-It-In or as Failure to Get Locked In PLO.

## How to Pass the Responsibility to Your Students

When you are ready, tell your students that you don’t want to boss them around, that this is their classroom, and that they are going to get to be in charge of their own transitions. Let them know that from now on, you will simply pick a student who is already doing what they are supposed to be doing (sitting quietly at a clean workspace) to Lock-It-In. To be clear, the person whose job it is to Lock-It-In is not hired and fired. Instead, you will pick a different person each time. Simply say, “_________,