140 The Classroom Behavior Manual

teammates, but as time goes by, encourage students to try to find answers on their own.
- Aligns with the standards you teach.
- At least a little fun. Funny word problems for 4th graders with students’ names in them are usually better than 20 multiplication problems. A question asking for an opinion for a high school social studies class about a current event that happened the day before is preferable to a question asking students to describe the three branches of government. At least at first, fun and funny is better than challenging and frustrating.
- Something that can be created quickly. You are a teacher. You have no extra time, and you have to make this Quick Start Activity every day. Some savvy teachers create a template to simplify the process. As a 3rd grade teacher, I always did one daily edit and one daily math problem. I created a template, and each day I would change its contents and project the “new” activity onto my board. Feel free to use templates created by others in your school or online.
- Draws upon old information. You should be the one teaching new concepts, and that should be done during regular lessons throughout the class day.

## Team Captains

Each team should have a new team captain each day. On the first day of school, select one student as team captain from each team. The function of that student during Morning Meeting is to get Quick Start Activity materials for the team, located in the class mailbox or materials bin. It is also the job of the team captain to pass out papers to the team throughout the day.

Each day, the position of the student who is the team captain rotates counter-clockwise. It is up to the students to manage this order. If there is a disagreement, allow the team to attempt to work it out. If it becomes a problem for you, or if you are asked by the students to resolve the issue, simply give the choice, “Would you like to solve this yourself, or would you like me to solve it?” If the students ask you to solve it, or if they are unable to solve the problem immediately, select a student from another team to be the team captain for that team for the day, creating a very high likelihood that next time, the team will be able to solve the problem on their own.

## Team of the Day (TOD)

Every day, one of the class’s teams will be the “team of the day” (TOD). That team will have special responsibilities during Morning Meeting, detailed here, and