Relationship-Building Strategies 57

Again, using Extreme Manners during the ESPN Greeting and ESPN Goodbye procedures is incredibly important and also exceptionally easy. It creates a gateway that gives each student the cue that they are entering and leaving a place where the level of respect is at an incredibly high plateau—one that they may or may not have experienced in the past, and one that they may or may not be experiencing at home.

## Act Like a Butler

You want your students to take care of their responsibilities. The best, most effective, and easiest way to do this is for you to model taking care of your responsibilities by creating a safe, functional learning environment in which you deliver excellent, organized instruction. In this way (and in no other way) you are employed to serve your students. Do that. Be excellent. Be organized. Have everything at right angles. Make sure your tech is set up in advance. Have your read-aloud in the right place. Think about how a butler is in charge of making sure that everything is just so. Be fastidious—in full view of your students.

Again, some of your students will have seen this level of responsibility from adults, but some of your students may not have. Setting such an example could be transformational for these students.

When you have failed to live up to your responsibilities—when things are not just so—act like a butler who has spilled the tea, or forgotten to put out the cookies, or failed to clean the hardwood floors: apologize profusely. Apologize if your technology doesn’t work. Apologize if you can’t find your read-aloud. Apologize for accidentally leaving windows open and making students in the back of the room cold. Apologize for not having enough copies, and apologize for teaching something the wrong way. This says to your students that you respect them and want to serve them by instructing them, and that you take these responsibilities seriously.

## Apologize

Apologizing to students is critical to building relationships with them. It models respect, shows your students that you care, and demonstrates that you are strong enough to ask for forgiveness. Finally, apologizing models the use of an apology so that students will eventually use this important life skill themselves!

Besides apologizing for failing to live up to your responsibilities of creating and maintaining a functional learning environment, there are other great opportunities to apologize to your students:

- When something outside your control causes a problem. This models the uber-responsibility of highly successful people and is an opportunity to model taking