166 The Classroom Behavior Manual

retune your ears by listening to the correct voice level. The Retuner will then wait between 1 minute and about 10 minutes before they come back to you, tag you, and quietly say the word “tuned.” If you are retuning someone for the first time, it should be closer to 1 minute. If it is their third or fourth time, it should be more like 10 minutes. Sometimes three or four students sitting next to each other may all need to be retuned at the same time. In that case just tag each one and say, “Retune,” to each.

Now, if more than four students need to be retuned at the same time, we’re just going to give up on that voice level for a bit and we will go to the next quietest voice level. The reason for this is that the lower voice levels like silence and whispering are easier to retune to. We may go from soft talking to whispering, or whispering to silence. If more than four people need to be retuned at silence level, we’ll just have the whole class retune until it’s time to go on to the next thing. The Retuner will say, so everyone can hear, “You have chosen [whispering or silent] workshop” when more than four students need to be retuned.

For the first few times we have Workshop, I’ll be the Retuner so that you all can see how I do it. Very soon, though, I’ll just pick someone at the beginning of Workshop who has the tuned-in voice level right away. If you are the Retuner, that means I’m not, so if I speak too loudly during Workshop, you can retune me if I need it. The only difference is that I will sit with my head up, since I have to be observing the classroom. The Retuner will still come and tag me and say, “Tuned,” anywhere between 1 minute and 10 minutes later. Just like for you all, have me retune for something like 1 minute if it’s my first retune and more like 10 minutes if it’s my third or fourth. By doing this, no one gets nagged, no one gets angry, and we’ll never have to be in a room that is too loud.

Take questions from the group at this point.

## Giving Choices

The following script should be the same every time you do Real-World Workshop. Keeping it the same every time makes it easier for you to remember it, allows you to do it faster, and creates consistency in the lives of students who may not be getting consistency anywhere else. Feel free to read it yourself at first, but turn the task over to students as soon as it is developmentally appropriate. The minimal amount of time this takes is well worth the control you are giving away each time this procedure is executed. The script can be shortened and made to be more casual, especially when