Relationship-Building Procedures 95

after your class has established your Class Rules, tell students something like the following:

> If you do cause a problem, and can’t or won’t solve it, then I must do something about it. I might accidentally do something that is not fair or say that I am going to do something that is not fair. If you think that I am doing something unfair, then I want you to whisper this to me: “I don’t know about that. Could we talk about this later?” We will then talk about it later when it is convenient for me.

This does not let students off the hook. It just means that you and the student will have a private conversation about the matter later. At that time, you should listen without talking. When the student is done talking, consider the student’s point of view. If you realize that you were wrong in your assessment of the situation, you can change you mind and pursue a new, fairer course of action. If you are not sure what is the best course of action in light of new facts or this new perspective, you can thank the student and let them know that you need to think about it and will get back to them. Then you can do more thinking or investigating, whatever the situation requires. If you don’t need this time, you can skip this step. After this delay—or right away, if you don’t need it—ask to offer your perspective on the matter. The original decision can be upheld or changed. Either way, the student received a fair hearing. As a result, you and the student both feel better about the situation, and your relationship is improved.

## Class Pledge

The Class Pledge procedure should follow the Class Rules procedure. That’s because you will not be posting the Class Rules agreed on by the students and the teacher. Rather, you will guide your students to write a class constitution. First, teach or review the concept of a constitution in an age-appropriate manner (use trade books on the topic if appropriate). After discussing the concept of a constitution as a guiding rule or law, lead students in another Real-World Workshop to turn their rules into a class constitution, which will, in turn, become the Class Pledge.

## The Procedure

1. **Reformat the agreed-upon rules.** Rewrite the Class Rule(s) in a format similar to that of the U.S. Constitution (“We, [class name] may do . . .”). This will serve as a rough draft of the class constitution.