Mindfulness Breaks 209

or stay. Either way is fine. If you go, stay there as long as you want, and come back when you are ready.

If you choose to go, great! If you choose to stay, great! If, however, I see that you are not looking like you can be with us because you seem agitated or because you are causing a problem or both, I will actually ask you to go to a Mindfulness Center, but, like always, you can come back as soon as you are able to come back.

Please listen to me: this is not a punishment! I don’t punish students. If it were a punishment, I wouldn’t let you come back, but I wouldn’t do that because I would miss you. I want you to be with us. So if you feel like, “Whoa, Mr. Ervin is right—I need a serious break,” just go and stay there until your brain is right. Or, if I ask you to please go to a Mindfulness Center and you think that I am being ridiculous and that you weren’t really acting agitated or that you weren’t really causing a problem, just go to the center and see how quickly you can tap your butt on the chair and come right back. That’s fine. I make mistakes all the time. That’s your way of telling me that I was wrong and ridiculous and that you can totally stay in class without causing a problem.

I may need to tell you to go to a certain Mindfulness Center, so we need a name for each one. No time to vote, so first come, first served: we can name these two places to chill the names of any country in the world except for the one in which we are currently living. I will call on silently raised hands! [Get names of two countries.] Sudan and Luxembourg it is! You will notice that Make Mindfulness Center Labels is a Later for today. Feel free to make those if you would like. Turn them in and we can laminate them all together to make cool signs.

In addition, my friends Mr. Hetrick and Mrs. Singer across the hall also have Mindfulness Centers for themselves and their students. I may ask you to use one of those centers, or I may give you a choice of a center in here or over there. All I ask is that you please don’t go there on your own, since there’s a rule about teachers knowing where their students are. If you do end up in there, look for a chair with the name of a country on it. Just sneak in, use the Mindfulness Center for as long as you need it, and come back as soon as you can. You don’t have to talk to anyone. Again, I can’t emphasize enough that this is not a punishment! Just take a vacation in your mind, or do some breathing, or do some yoga, or do some