24 The Classroom Behavior Manual

You can keep using this tactic, if you feel you need it, but as you learn and deploy the procedures and strategies taught in this book, you will eventually find that you can set it aside.

For those who hold on to the behavior chart after the start of a new school year, I offer a particularly effective way to discard it (when you’re ready) that will support relationship building with your students:

1. Wait for a moment when behavior in the room is perfect. A completely silent moment during quiet work time, such as the Silent Work procedure (see Chapter 8), is an optimal moment.
2. With emotion and volume, say something like this: “Team Awesome [see Class Nickname procedure, Chapter 5], I’m sorry to interrupt you. I’m looking around, and I must tell you that I owe you an apology. Not one of you is causing a problem for anyone. You are being fantastic and taking care of business. I feel like this behavior chart that I have been using is silly. I think that it’s for people who can’t manage their own behavior, and I see that you can. I’m so sorry that I have been insulting your intelligence by using this thing. It is unnecessary. You all obviously don’t need it.”
3. Choose the most difficult student who has been exhibiting the most positive behaviors lately and continue: “Dontonio, would you please rip that thing off the wall?”
4. Allow each student to throw away any clips or cards that you have been using. Feel free to let them break or tear the cards, clips, or assorted doodads first.

## This Book Is Not Another "Thing"

Any teacher who has been around for more than a few years has seen “things” (e.g., curriculum, methods, ideologies, processes) come and go. Many of us have been around long enough to see “things” come, go, and come back again (often with different names). Eventually, many educators (myself included) have stopped trying to learn new “things.”

Why have we stopped trying?

- We can’t possibly add another “thing” to what we’re already required to do.
- We don’t have any more room in our brains.
- We know that if we ignore the latest “thing” for long enough, it will go away.