76 The Classroom Behavior Manual

are only there to facilitate learning. They will be the ones who manage and lead the room.

After you tell students that the room is theirs, act on it. Explain that to call the class “[Your Name]’s Room” doesn’t make any sense, so you are going to give them the chance to name themselves. Inform them that they will be voting to determine a name for the class, then follow these steps:

1. Brainstorm names. Adjourn to team desks/tables (which you created in Chapter 3). Have each team discuss and debate names for the class. Often, especially with older students, this degenerates into “What would be funny/inappropriate for our teacher to call us all year?” That’s fine, for now. Encourage all students to offer ideas but don’t force the issue. Allow teams around five minutes to discuss.

2. Identify potential names. Regroup as a class. Call on each student to offer one name. Students who don’t want to suggest a name can pass their nomination to another student of their choice. This is strategic. Students who have low control needs will almost always pass to kids who have higher control needs, such as the class clowns who like to be funny. They often get many nominations passed to them and tend to come up with the best names. In turn, the class is likely to choose one of these names, thereby giving this high-control need student a feeling of tremendous ownership each time the name is used for the rest of the year. Write potential names on the board. If any names are totally inappropriate in your view, you can reject them, but accept borderline nicknames for now. A borderline nickname is one that you feel slightly uncomfortable with; let your students know that if one of the borderline names is voted through, then you will need to get permission from the principal to use that name. Often, these names will be sports teams, sayings, and with older students, somewhat inappropriate slang terms often taken from rap songs, Saturday Night Live, and so on.

3. Take a vote. Allow students to vote on their favorite names. Give each student two votes. Call out each name and take a show of hands. The top vote getter is the class name for the year. In the case of a tie, hold a runoff vote using just the tied names.

4. Address borderline names. In the event a borderline name wins the vote, let your giggling students know that you will have to go to your administrator and ask if the name is acceptable. If you are too uncomfortable with the name to ask your administrator about it, then the name should not have been considered in the first place. If the administrator approves the name, great! Proceed. If the