Delayed Learning Opportunities 239

DLOs that are not Situational are Destressing. While each Situational Problem-Solving DLO has its own unique characteristics, all Destressing Problem-Solving DLOs have the same description: the student is required to do things for the person or people whose lives were made more stressful because of their behavior. What that student does for the stressed-out person or people will depend on what would best improve the lives of the stressed-out party.

- DLO-worthy behavior: A student constantly interrupts the teacher.

  Destressing Problem-Solving DLO: The student is required to enter data and grade papers for the teacher, thus lowering the teacher’s stress level back to normal after it was raised by the behavior of the student.

- DLO-worthy behavior: A student whines habitually at the PE teacher.

  Destressing Problem-Solving DLO: The PE teacher requires the student to deep-clean the equipment closet (because cleaning the closet is stressful).

While the person who most often needs to be destressed is the teacher, students are also often stressed out by repeated or major negative behaviors. For example:

- DLO-worthy behavior: A student habitually does not respect the personal space of another student.

  Destressing Problem-Solving DLO: The close-talking student cleans the other student’s desk, turns in their work for them, and delivers work materials to them.

When you have both Situational Problem-Solving DLOs and Destressing Problem-Solving DLOs at your disposal, any behavior can be given a DLO to allow students to learn that they must solve the problems that they cause.

## Practice DLOs

The concept behind this final type of DLO is as simple as it is logical: if students are not experts at using particular positive behaviors, they will be required to practice using these positive behaviors until they are experts. This can be a great equalizer for students who have not used many positive behaviors at home throughout their lives when compared to their peers who have been trained at home to only use positive behaviors. This DLO gives these students the opportunity to catch up to their peers in terms of positive conduct.

Just like the Destressing Problem-Solving DLOs, the Practice DLOs can be used for any behavior, because if a student needs a DLO, it means that they are presently struggling to use a positive behavior, so they need to practice that behavior. To