Academic Control-Sharing Procedures 159

Board may look like this, with perhaps just a few students needing to do the behavioral Now:

**Nows**  
Math book, page 1, #6–12/ page 1, #6–9  
Write introductory narrative paragraph  
Answer reading questions #1–4/#1–2  
Practice not touching people in line  

**Laters**  
Create Team Tags  
Read  
?

## Real-World Workshop During Indoor Recess

When using Real-World Workshop, you may see some amazing things happen during indoor recess. Let students know that they are allowed to do their Laters at that time even if they haven’t finished their Nows (it is recess, after all). Of course, they are also allowed to play any indoor recess games, as they always have.

This is a test of the quality of your Laters. If no one ever chooses Laters during indoor recess, your Laters are not good enough. Improve them. Allowing students to do Laters during indoor recess will help to get students who have not been consistently getting to them during Real-World Workshop addicted to these educational activities. They will realize that when recess is over, they will have to go back to doing Nows more or less all day long unless they work harder. They then realize that if they work hard, they can “play” much or most of the day!

Additionally, you will find that many students, even students who have never worked hard in their lives, will start doing Nows during recess! I have had students look around during indoor recess, turn to me and ask, “Wait . . . is this recess, or is this Workshop?”

## Start Off Easy and Get Them Addicted to Success

Keep in mind that you may have students who have had success in the past with acting “lazy” and becoming belligerent. These students will reveal themselves in the first few days of school. It is your job to create the optimal environment for all of your students to become successful in working hard and using positive behaviors. No procedure better accomplishes this than Real-World Workshop.

Think about the outlook that most of your difficult students have on their first day of school: they generally don’t like school because it’s too hard, it isn’t fun, and