Relationship-Building Strategies 53

is that you are doing so much noticing, even when you move from public to private statements, but students pointing out the noticing does not constitute a reason to stop. If a student reacts to a Noticing with “SO?!” simply respond with “I just happened to notice” while walking away.

**Strategic Noticing Will Change You**

When you don’t consciously focus on noticing positive behaviors—students walking, working, and being kind—you will often focus on negative behaviors. When you focus on negative behaviors and notice them more, you can perpetuate even more negative behaviors. It creates a downward spiral that destroys teachers by turning formerly positive people into negative people who encourage more and more negative behaviors throughout their careers.

Conversely, if you continually make a conscious effort to notice positive behaviors, especially if you do so hundreds of times per day, it will not only make positive behaviors more and more common throughout the rest of your career, it will make you more positive.

We become what we continually focus on.

**Preventive Movement**

As a teacher, you should move around the room as much as possible. Preventive Movement (PM) involves walking around the classroom even when all is well. This should happen as much as possible. Once you begin to use Strategic Noticing as a matter of habit, and once you are able to use the other strategies and procedures in this manual, you will become a powerful force for constantly reinforcing positive behavior while gently guiding students back to using positive behaviors if they start experimenting with negative behaviors. Moving throughout the room enables that force to seem ubiquitous to students. You want your students to feel as though that force is everywhere!

For times when it is difficult to implement Preventive Movement, you can engage in one of two specialized forms of Preventive Movement: Preventive Sweeps and Preventive Charges.

**Preventive Sweep**

A Preventive Sweep can be useful for a high school math teacher tethered to a projector or a 2nd grade teacher located behind a reading table teaching small groups. In either case, find short breaks in the instruction to wander around the room for