22 The Classroom Behavior Manual

# The Classroom Behavior Manual

Note that the title of this book does not involve the terms “student behavior,” “behavior management,” or even “behavioral leadership.” This manual is not primarily about student behavior. Positive student behaviors are desired outcomes. This manual does not concentrate on outcomes; it concentrates on inputs. The inputs are the educator behaviors: what exactly do educators do to create a prosocial classroom? When you use the strategies and procedures as explicitly taught in this book, student behaviors will be more positive so that educators can be calm and regulated enough to behave in such a way that creates a high “behavioral ceiling,” or the behavioral level of the classroom’s teachers: students can only aspire to attain the behavioral level of the adults around them. The procedures and strategies in this book will help educators behave like the people they would like their students to become. This is the manual for creating a fully functional environment where everyone’s behavior is prosocial, and no one’s behavior is antisocial.

Only within this environment can teachers succeed. And only within this environment can students achieve and thrive.

## Don’t Just Read This Book

Please don’t just read this book. It’s a manual: use it. Use it to put into place procedures and strategies that allow you to be calm and assertive with even the most difficult students.

## Procedures: Go at the Prescribed Pace—or Slower

You may be tempted to try to consume this book’s content rapidly and implement every single procedure and strategy immediately. Don’t. The best way to use this material is to implement the procedures according to the “First Three Weeks of School” schedule (see page 100). Do not try to go faster than prescribed. You may, however, need or want to go more slowly, because either you are uncomfortable following the schedule, or your school requires more academic accountability during this time. Go at the pace with which you are comfortable. Don’t openly defy your administration just to be faithful to the suggestions in this book.

## Strategies: Pick and Choose

In contrast to procedures, the strategies outlined in this book can be used as needed or as opportunities arise. I recommend experimenting with one or two