234 The Classroom Behavior Manual

lesson has already been taught for them. Teachers should pray for nonlethal, non-permanently damaging NLOs to befall their students. Allow the Universe to be your coteacher: allow it to educate when it can. When NLOs befall students, your responsibility as the teacher is to not destroy the lesson already taught by the Universe. There are, however, three things you must do in this case.

1. **Use your Calm Signal and empathize.** Use your Calm Signal immediately; this will help you to avoid doing hurtful actions of #2. Feel free to empathize in any way that does not contradict #3. Make sure the student who fell in the hallway is not injured and, if necessary, refer him to the nurse. For the student with the falling grade, whisper, “Let me know if you need help,” as you hand back the quiz with the F. Give the student who just threw up five cupcakes a pat on the back when she returns from the bathroom.

2. **Refrain from using anger and lectures to say, “I told you so.”** Students who have just been taught a lesson by the Universe may not be in a thinking state. One of the best parts of an NLO is that the student has no one to blame but themselves. Many students will be looking for someone besides themselves to be mad at. Don’t volunteer yourself for this job by attempting to reteach the lesson that was just taught by the Universe. The Universe is a better teacher than you. The lesson is done. Stay out of it. Don’t yell at the injured student about what he already learned about running in the hallway. Don’t lecture the student who got the failing grade about working hard. Don’t lecture a basketball player about how she can’t participate in basketball practice without shoes, as the player is already not participating. Students will actively unlearn a lesson taught by the Universe just to spite the teacher who lectured them immediately after their lesson provided by the Universe.

3. **Don’t save your students from the lesson.** Unless you are preventing death or serious injury, never save a student from an NLO. You should never allow a parent to bring the shoes or the missing permission form. You should never give an extra chance to earn a passing grade. Doing this breeds irresponsibility and the unrealistic expectation that someone will always be there to shield students from the Universe and its lessons. Saving students from their own actions hurts them in the long run.

Allow the Universe to be your coteacher. Allow the Universe to teach life lessons. There are only two remaining lessons that you will have to teach and only two kinds of DLOs that you will use to teach them.