114 The Classroom Behavior Manual

a prompt for silence. Make sure to make the silence prompt different than any of the cleanup/transition prep prompts, or confusion will ensure. Use the same procedure for nomination and voting as you did for Class Handshake or Class Applause. Students may choose any number of silly sounds or phrases: “Sha-na-na!” “Bleep-blorp!” and “Shebang!” would all be acceptable.

## What If They Never Get Quiet? Procedural Learning Opportunities

Since many students have been trained by parents and teachers that when adults say things that they don’t really mean them, they have learned to ignore prompts for quiet. Through Class Procedural Learning Opportunities (PLOs), Small-Group PLOs, and Individual PLOs, those students will learn one of the most valuable lessons you can teach them: that when authority figures say things and set limits, there will be consequences for testing those limits. Whether children learn this can be a matter of life or death, and successfully teaching this concept to students may be the most important thing that you do in your lifetime.

When five or more students continue to be disruptive after a Prompt for Quiet and a period of waiting and, if you wish, after a few interventions have been used, it is time to implement a Class PLO. If the number of students still engaging in the antisocial behavior of talking after the prompt is less than five but more than one, skip to a Small-Group PLO. If only one student continues to talk post-prompt, be disappointed that more students won’t learn this valuable lesson, and continue to an Individual PLO.

Procedural Learning Opportunities are not punishments. They are opportunities for students to learn how to master being an effective part of the school community. In this way, they are similar to Delayed Learning Opportunities (see Chapter 9), which offer the same benefit. PLOs are consequences that are woven into the fabric of procedures that allow students to learn how to be effective within the parameters of the specific procedure.

If you have already hired a student for a prompting job, give the student the choice to participate in PLO practice sessions, but do not require it. Many students, especially HCNCs, will enjoy being a part of student consequences, and it is a fantastic means of giving those students a tremendous amount of control on your terms. Make sure, however, that they are merely giving the prompt, not trying to manage the behaviors of their fellow students. To the extent that it is appropriate, student