86 The Classroom Behavior Manual

able to get ready in time, then apologize to the nickname candidate and let them know that you will perform the ceremony as soon as you can.

- Make sure that everyone has a nickname by the end of January (for schools with a traditional calendar), but don’t do too many ceremonies too quickly. The longer a student waits to get a nickname, the more the student will appreciate it once it is given! Don’t hold ceremonies for multiple students at the same time—unless they have complementary nicknames like Big Bear and Little Bear.

- Never use the giving of a nickname as a reward or the withholding of a nickname as a threat or a punishment. This will damage rather than strengthen your relationships.

- When you get a new student in the middle of the year, don’t choose a nickname right away. This allows new students to feel like real members of the class once they receive a nickname instead of feeling like they are just getting a nickname by default. If students question why a new student has not yet received a nickname, simply let them know that you have not yet gotten to know the new student well enough to pick an awesome nickname.

## Class Applause

Teachers of all grades often struggle to get their students to applaud and show appreciation for the work or presentations of their fellow classmates. One way to solve that problem, while also allowing students to build ownership of their classroom, is to create a new and different way to applaud in your classroom. Giving students ownership of the way they express appreciation makes it more likely that they will show appreciation. In turn, the more appreciation shown by your students, the more positive your class environment will become.

In addition, the students least likely to show appreciation through applause generally are the ones most likely to “applaud” in an alternative way chosen by the class. These more challenging students also tend to be better at coming up with funny ways of showing appreciation. If the class adopts a method of applause suggested by a more challenging student, that student will likely lead the charge to use the applause all year long rather than rolling their eyes while listlessly slapping their hands together.

## The Procedure

1. Introduce the concept. During a Morning Meeting (see Chapter 8) for younger students and at the end of a class period for older students, inform