Gentle Guidance Interventions 199

to do.” Say it in passing, without eye contact. Think about how many demands you could replace with this single GGI.

**29. Statement of Fact.** This is a simple statement that assumes intelligence, most often used when students or teams are being less than responsible. It is just a statement of something that is true but should not be. Examples may include the following:

- “Your desk has stuff under it.”
- “Purple Foxes have some things to do before Afternoon Meeting.”
- “There’s a coat on the floor.”
- “The Astronauts still have mail in their mailboxes.”

These simple statements prompt students to do what they are supposed to do without nagging them.

## The Question Matrix

While asking questions is a time-honored part of the teaching of academic subjects that goes back to Socrates, questions are woefully absent in the world of discipline. The effects of this absence are often catastrophic.

The words “question” and “demand” are antonyms. Demands stimulate psychological reactance and make students less cooperative: human beings don’t like being told what to do. Questions, on the other hand, have an almost magical ability to allow the person being questioned to take ownership of their life and answer the question, at least in their mind. Questions also allow the questioner to assume cooperation, assume intelligence (asking a question makes the assumption that the questionee can answer it), and avoid being anxious about trying to figure out what students should be doing. After all, when you tell someone what to do, you must first determine what they should be doing. Doing this for 25 to 35 students at a time is exhausting. By using the Question Matrix, you can avoid this dynamic. Replacing demands with the following questions can revolutionize your classroom.

**30.** “What’s next?” A great prompt for a space cadet lost in space for a moment.

**31.** “What now?”

**32.** “Where should you be?” For when the cadets start to leave the Milky Way.

**33.** “What should you be doing?”

**34.** “Is now the right time for that?” Most behaviors that are negative (problem-causing) in school aren’t inherently “bad.” Running, yelling, and chewing gum are not the actions of an evil person; they just aren’t appropriate for certain locations and times in the school day. Asking this question allows you