44 The Classroom Behavior Manual

themselves to not do something (in this case, to not get angry). Brains don’t work like that. The human brain needs to be trained to do things, not to not do them.

This strategy is what you actually do to break the “Bad Kid” Cycle.

## Choose a Calm Signal

You will need to choose or create a sound, word, or very short phrase that you will use as your Calm Signal. Create or choose carefully; if you use it correctly, you will be saying this phrase thousands of times per year until the end of your career.

Choose a Calm Signal that sounds like something you would say or is something you already say. Here is a list of suggestions:

| Left Column | Right Column |
|-------------|--------------|
| Oh, man.    | Huh.         |
| Oh, boy.    | Oh.          |
| Yikes.      | Whoa.        |
| Yeesh.      | Blarg.       |
| Ugh.        | (The sound of a slow exhale) |

To create your own, follow these guidelines:

- Pick a Calm Signal that you cannot make sound sarcastic, no matter how hard you try. “Really?” and “Seriously?” are not acceptable. If you find yourself to be the kind of person who can make any words sarcastic, choose or create a sound instead of a word.
- Your Calm Signal should be no more than three (short) words long.
- Your Calm Signal must be something that won’t annoy you if you have to say it 100 times in a day—because some days, you might.

Once you have picked a signal that works for you, you are ready to begin your Calm Signal training.

## Train Yourself to Use the Calm Signal at Home

If you sleep in the same bed with someone, alert them to the fact that you are going to do the following: as you are falling asleep, inhale deeply. On the exhale, say your Calm Signal. Say it calmly, softly, and slowly. (See why you had to warn your significant other?) Do this until you are asleep. Do it every night for two weeks. Even if you can’t quite fall asleep while doing this routine, it will file your Calm Signal in a part of your brain where it will be easier to retrieve than if you never did this at all.