Academic Control-Sharing Procedures 145

to create and nurture a positive learning environment. Of course, you will need to scaffold appropriately for the student teaching. Never send students into a situation that they cannot handle, but challenge them by giving them just enough support to be successful.

Once the answer is written on the board and all teaching is done, allow an appropriate amount of time for students to complete their work, if necessary. Students should be done or nearly done by the time teaching is done. Allow them to copy the work off the board at this point. Remember that most students should have had significant time to work on this already: it has been available since the moment they arrived at school.

The following means of holding students accountable will supercharge hard work without anyone but the students working hard.

**Tagging**

From the first day of the school year, once it is possible that a student may be done with the Quick Start Activity, say the following:

I will tag students who are done with the Quick Start Activity and have their hands down. Once you have been tagged, you may _________ and talk with your friends, or you may sit and wait silently.

Fill in the blank with the actions necessary for students to be ready for the next activity. Depending on grade level and circumstances, the blank could be filled in with the following:

- Take out your math book and open it to page 33.
- Sit on your square on the carpet.
- Get out your writing journal.
- Stare off into space.

At that point, you may walk around and tag those who are done, while helping those students who ask for help. Ignore students who are not working hard. The procedure itself will teach them to work hard. At the appropriate time, say the following:

Feel free to finish any time in the next 120 seconds, or after your other Nows are done during Real-World Workshop, or at recess [or lunch if there is no recess].

Do not lecture or warn or threaten. Just make the statement. With 10 seconds remaining, walk around with a clipboard and write down the names of students who have not completed the Quick Start Activity. When done correctly, you will never have