218 The Classroom Behavior Manual

- Use only your favorite interventions.
- Ignore the ones you don’t like.
- Give a significant DLO later that will teach students proper behavior of taking a Mindfulness Break when asked.
- You can’t make a student take a Mindfulness Break—not in the moment, anyway!

## Tactics for Dealing with Mindfulness Break Refusal

1. **Delay the DLO Verbally.** Simply use your personal DLO Delaying Script, as described in Chapter 11. Concentrate on using your Calm Signal. Move on. This will likely have the effect of the student calming down enough to remain in the learning environment, especially if the inevitability of DLOs has been established.

2. **Delay the DLO with Only a Calm Signal.** For students you know to be more explosive, meet their refusal with only your Calm Signal. Move on. Keep teaching as if nothing happened.

3. **Delay the DLO Mentally.** Simply meet the refusal by walking away. Use this with only your most explosive and savvy students.

Mindfulness Break Refusal DLOs #1-3 should be your primary tools in refusal situations. However, if the student was sent into a belligerent rage either when asked to take the break or in response to these DLOs, the following two interventions can be used:

4. **Coach’s Gambit.** In professional basketball, coaches of the most poorly performing teams are often fired in the middle of the season. The average winning percentage for bad teams after the coach is replaced is about .900 in the five games immediately after the coach was fired, though the teams inevitably go back to their losing ways. What is the explanation for the brief fantastic performance of these terrible teams? The players’ effort greatly increases when a coach is fired because they are trying to show the world that the coach was the reason they were losing previously: they want to “show the coach up.”

This intervention uses the same dynamics. It takes a bit of planning. You will need two student volunteers. Ask one student, when you give a code word, to be in charge of lining up the class and taking them to a predetermined place where they can be monitored for only a few minutes—for example, another classroom (a PE class is often optimal, because 25 students sitting on bleachers usually isn’t disruptive).