80 The Classroom Behavior Manual

Procedures on the first day of school and throughout the first three weeks. In fact, the method you used to choose team names is one of those procedures: Real-World Workshop. (You’ll learn more about this in Chapter 8. Feel free to skip to page 146 if you would like to understand the rationale and details of this procedure now.)

The Team Nickname procedure serves as a good vehicle for teaching Real-World Workshop because every workshop will use a Nows and Laters Board. As one or more teams is likely to have trouble agreeing on a name, students will learn several facts of life about their classroom through this opening activity:

- A student’s problems are not the teacher’s problems.
- Conflicts among students create problems that must be solved by the students.
- Getting work done is the student’s problem, not the teacher’s.
- Consequences can befall entire teams or the entire class at any time, without warning.
- When students finish their work, they get to do things that are more fun than work.

## Student Nicknames

Class Nickname? Check. Team Nicknames? Check. That brings us to Student Nicknames. Whenever we go out of our way to give attention to a student in a positive way, it boosts their feeling of classroom ownership and enhances their relationship with their teacher. Giving a special nickname to a student shows that the teacher has taken the time to think of a good, meaningful name. It shows that the teacher likes the student. The chances of students liking the teacher go up considerably when students feel that the teacher likes them.

In addition, many students—especially those who demonstrate negative behaviors—have a negative association with their own names. This results from other adults in their lives using their names in a negative way. Consider how often students who are consistently “in trouble” must hear their name yelled while being corrected or punished. Students who have had traumatic experiences can even go into fight, flight, or freeze mode just by hearing an adult say their name! Some students might associate their names with negative thoughts, feelings, and emotions, which means that a teacher can damage the relationship just by saying their names.

Using a nickname enables the teacher to circumvent and even counter these dynamics. Just as some students might equate “bad behavior” with their name, they