Relationship-Building Strategies 65

only from their teachers but also from their families through negative behaviors. A positive call home gives the family an opportunity to give attention to a report of positive behaviors. In turn, this gives students a taste—perhaps for the first time—of what happens in life when they use positive behaviors, which increases the likelihood that they might continue to use those behaviors.

When you make these calls, have something specific and positive to share about the child. Make it authentic and real. If it is in any way true, remark that you like their child. Keep in mind that many of these families have been through and continue to go through a world of worry, hurt, and pain because of their child’s behavior. They might be tremendously anxious, angry, or defensive about their child.

I tend to mention actions that the student took that were positive that relate to something that I like about them. Here are some things I have called parents about:

> Hi, Mr. Jacobs. This is Mr. Ervin. I’m calling about Derrick. I wanted to let you know that he had a fantastic first day in improv class with me. He learned and followed the rules of improv right out of the gate, and the other kids followed suit. His display of leadership as an 8th grader in a class with students in 5th through 8th grade really helped me out today!

> Hi, Mrs. Allen. This is Mr. Ervin. I’m calling about Tyrell. He had an awesome day. I really noticed how the other kids respect him and follow his lead. I think that even though they would follow him no matter what he does, he has been setting a really positive example by following rules and being kind to other students. I’m glad I get to have him in my fourth period class.

> Hello, Ms. Stremanos. It’s Mr. Ervin. I’m calling about Jenae. She’s hilarious. You must get a kick out of her every day. You probably know, but she gave her introductory speech about herself, and she was so funny and very confident in front of the group. I wanted to let you know how much I appreciate the fact that even though she has this amazing sense of humor, she never tries to cut up when it’s not appropriate, and she waits for the right times to be funny. I just really like her and appreciate her for that. You’ve got to be very proud of her.

> Hello, Mr. Boykins. It’s Mr. Ervin, Brian’s teacher. I wanted to tell you that I saw your kid playing football on the playground today. Wow! Now