238 The Classroom Behavior Manual

anything that can be safely done that benefits the school. Custodial duties, often monitored by a school custodian, are appropriate in this case.

This can also be done when a student destroys the property of another student. These jobs can be even more targeted: carrying books for a student or cleaning out lockers or desks for a student during recess could be part of the DLO.

- DLO-worthy behavior: An 8th grade student has a tantrum and destroys a classroom. She refuses to clean up the mess, and since class must go on immediately, the teacher and other students are forced to clean the room so that class can continue.

  Problem-Solving DLO: Tantrumer must come back during noninstructional time and be in charge of cleaning the classroom for a certain number of days. Students and teachers, during this time, are allowed to not clean and tidy up their areas, as they know that the tantrumer will be tending to it.

You will be able to create many other Situational Problem-Solving DLOs. As you do so, use these four as a guide and remember that pain is not the point. Though the DLO may incidentally cause suffering by being boring/monotonous/annoying, the learning is the point.

## Destressing Problem-Solving DLOs

While untrained teachers often have no trouble coming up with Problem-Solving Situational DLOs, they are usually at a loss when a student uses a DLO-worthy negative behavior but there doesn’t seem to be an authentic Situational Problem-Solving DLO that logically corresponds with the behavior in question. For example, there is an obvious Situational Problem-Solving DLO when a student makes a mess during a tantrum (they have to clean up the mess they made). But what if a student constantly interrupts you? What if a student is whining habitually in such a way that it makes you want to choose another profession? What if they are always invading the personal space of other students? In every one of those cases, the problem that the student is causing is that they are totally stressing people out!

Make no mistake, this is a major problem. You cannot teach when you are stressed out, which means that your students cannot learn. They also can’t learn if they are stressed out. Therefore, students cannot be allowed to stress out people at school. These behaviors need DLOs. But what does that look like?

The simple answer is that the student in question will solve the problem of stressing people out by taking away their stress or “destressing” them. All Problem-Solving