148 The Classroom Behavior Manual

# How Traditional Work Time Destroys the Work Ethic

This contrived way of organizing work prevents students from learning an existential truth about hard work: the harder people work, the better their lives become. When students understand this truism, they will work harder without teacher input. They will equate hard work with pleasure instead of pain.

This should not be construed as any kind of “pull yourself up by your own bootstraps” political statement about hard work. Nor should it be taken to mean that hard work leads to a generally happy life in the distant future. What it actually means is that, in a real-world setting, working hard enough to get specific tasks done makes your life better and more pleasant instantly because you no longer have to do those tasks! In real life, when you are done with your work, you get to do things that you would rather do.

# How Traditional Work Time Creates Power Struggles and Encourages Belligerent and “Lazy” Behaviors

Many students don’t enjoy learning for the sake of learning. And many are wired to be difficult, control-seeking, attention-seeking, and stubborn. For those students, traditional work time is very frustrating. I should know, because I was one of those students.

If a student can’t feel the control and satisfaction of being done with work, they often try to replace those feelings by controlling something that they can always control: whether or not they do the work. Over the years, tens of millions of teachers have spent billions of hours trying to get students to complete work. This creates anger, resentment, and power struggles that teachers are bound to lose, because they cannot make students work—and the students know this. The more stubborn the student, the more their stubbornness is reinforced and heightened. This stubbornness can become belligerence or overt aggression. Most often, though, these behaviors are misunderstood as laziness. In actuality, “laziness” is usually just a passive-aggressive or passive-resistant reaction to being told to do work. Many students (like me) would rather win an unlosable power struggle than actually do the work, especially when the reward for doing work is . . . more work.

# The Alternative to Traditional Work Time

The Real-World Workshop procedure creates an environment whereby students’ lives get better instantly when they work hard enough to complete quality work. On the other hand, just like in real life, not getting done with their work is its own consequence because they still have work to do so they are not able to do the things