Student Job Procedures 113

to the next activity or lesson (when they are quiet), and then use consequences for classes or students who are not quiet.

- “I will begin when everyone is seated quietly.”

If certain materials are required for the upcoming activity or assignment, the prompt can be altered accordingly:

- “I will begin when everyone is seated quietly with their math books turned to page 32.”

To calmly encourage cooperation, you can do as many interventions as you wish, with an emphasis on moving closer to students who are standing or talking (see Chapter 9). Keep in mind that the number of interventions that you wish to use could be zero. If students continue to engage in antisocial behaviors, enact the appropriate consequence procedure, depending on the number of students still using antisocial behaviors after you use the Prompt for Quiet (see the description of Procedural Learning Opportunities below).

After modeling the Prompt for Quiet job for an appropriate number of days, hire a student to take on the responsibility. So that it makes sense, and so that the student gets ownership of the process, have them change the “I” in the prompt to “we” (e.g., “We will begin when everyone is seated quietly”).

Remember, the prompt for cleanup is prompted by the clock, and the prompt for silence is prompted by the teacher. The prompt for silence can be given by the teacher, especially when in a hurry, or it can be given by a student. That student can be a hired prompter, or any students can be prompted at any time by the teacher. If there is no prompter hired, only students who are using prosocial behaviors should be prompted.

Fun, easy ways to prompt both hired and temporary prompters include throwing a safe, soft, non-bouncy object at students whom you want to give the silence prompt. Have the student always put the object back in a predetermined place. If a hired prompter forgets, they are fired. If a temporary prompter forgets, don’t use them again.

**Student-Created Prompts**

Whenever it is convenient for you, you can allow students to create, nominate, and vote for the format of their prompts. You can have the same prompt for all of your cleanup/transition prep prompts (Morning Cleanup, Lunchtime, End of Day, etc.), or you can have a different one for each. Your students can also create