82 The Classroom Behavior Manual

5. Approach the student for their approval. The easiest way to make sure a student likes a nickname is to ask the student! Do this before the ceremony. If a student doesn’t like the name (or appears doubtful or uncertain), let them know that you won’t use the name and you need more time to think of a better name. You can go on to other students while you are contemplating a new nickname for that student, but don’t wait too long (no more than a month or so) before getting back to the student with a new nickname.

Alternatively, you can work cooperatively with each student on a nickname, or do both. Choose it yourself when you have a strong feeling about a nickname, or work with the student when you need some help or when you think a particularly clever student may come up with a better nickname than you would.

---

**A Student by Any Other Name . . .**

Over the years, I have taught or served as principal to thousands of young people. These are just a few nicknames that I have bestowed along the way. Each one was approved by the student:

- “Red” for a boy with—you got it—red hair
- “Princess Giggles” for one particularly bubbly girl
- “Big Bear” and “Little Bear” for two best friends who were both rather cuddly-looking; one big, one more diminutive
- “Flash” for a student who was super-fast and on the football team
- “Flips” for a gymnast
- “Hoops” for a basketball player

---

**The Nickname Ceremony**

Once you have picked a nickname and received approval, you are ready to hold your first Nickname Ceremony. Nickname Ceremonies should occur at the end of a school day during your Afternoon Meeting (see Chapter 8 for more about the Afternoon Meeting procedure). As soon as you have finished the rest of the Afternoon Meeting, you can begin the Nickname Ceremony.

Tailor your Nickname Ceremony to your own sense of fun, humor, and comfort level with silliness. I’ve outlined some general guidelines below, followed by a walk-through of one of my ceremonies. You can adopt my methods, but it will be more fun to create your own using the guidelines.