224 The Classroom Behavior Manual

both a neurological and logistical standpoint, this is the only way this kind of learn- ing can take place.

From a neurological perspective, if a student’s behavior has not been prevented by the use of Relationship-Building Procedures, Control-Sharing Procedures, and Relationship-Building Strategies and has not been successfully mitigated by Gentle Guidance Interventions, that student will surely not be in a thinking state once the teacher has determined that the student has reached the terminal destination: a DLO. In this state, the student’s brain stem is activated, and the prefrontal cortex is effec- tively turned off. At that moment, the student cannot learn; indeed, the student is literally incapable of thinking. Even if a perfect learning opportunity could be created at that moment, the student would be noncompliant and incapable of learning the life lesson. And even if the student could learn the lesson, conversely, the teacher in this scenario is also very likely in their brain stem and also unable to think, so it would be impossible to come up with the correct learning opportunity in the first place!

Furthermore, even if the teacher could think, attempting to create the learning opportunity in that moment is a diversion from teaching the other students in the class who deserve an education! Stopping the learning of perhaps 30 other students to try to teach a lesson that can’t be taught and can’t be learned is not a good use of the educator’s time.

One final logistical concern is that attending to the student’s negative behaviors by stopping instruction and dealing with a behavior in the moment gives the student attention, control, and work avoidance—the “holy trinity” of student behavioral goals. Even just attending to it immediately reinforces the negative behavior.

## Suffering Is Incidental

Just as DLOs are not punishments, they also do not consist of the repeated reteaching of skills. For very young children, minimal reteaching may be performed (once), but DLOs do not make the assumption that students who use a negative behavior simply “forgot” how to use a positive behavior. While this may be true, and DLOs attend to the possibility, it is not assumed.

Students almost always know what positive behaviors they should be exhibiting, but they continue to use negative behaviors because those behaviors get them what they want (attention, control, or avoidance). Instead of repeatedly teaching what the student already knows, you will ask the student to do one of two learning activities: