152 The Classroom Behavior Manual

- Play on Chromebooks
- Play dodgeball with Coach Johnson
- Relax under a tree
- Do relay races on the track

The possibilities are endless.

Of course, some of these involve some logistical organization, but perhaps not as many as you might think. If Principal Jones shows up unannounced in your doorway with a basketball under his arm, you know you can reveal the corresponding Mystery Later, and students who are on their Laters can leave with him to play basketball. The same is true when Coach Johnson shows up with a dodgeball. If you team-teach or do inclusion with another teacher, and you erase your question mark and put up “Recess,” one teacher can take those who are working on their Laters and wish to have recess outside, and the other teacher can work with those still on their Nows. If you teach alone, you can put recess up as a Mystery Later, line up your entire class, and have students who are not done with Nows bring those Nows outside to work on in a designated area while those on their Laters play. The same can be done with relay races or any other outdoor activity.

Now that you understand how to use Nows, Laters, and Mystery Laters, the text below will show you how to enact the Real-World Workshop procedure starting on the second day of school. Recall that you already used the procedure on your first day, without even having all the details under your belt.

On Day 2, you may begin some academic work; for example, you might start your first math lesson. (Please note that this book offers no suggestions about any academic content; this is purely an example.) Let’s say you are doing a review of 2nd grade addition. You have taught the lesson, and students will practice their skills by doing a workbook page. Your board may look like this:

```
Nows
Math book, page 1, #6-12
Laters
Create team tags
Read
?
```

Note that your board will look like this at the beginning of Day 2 only if all teams successfully and unanimously chose team names on Day 1 (the only Now for that day). If there is even one team who has not yet chosen a team name, that Now remains,