Before You Begin 15

But nothing worked.

I listened. I cared. I tried. I kept showing up.

But nothing worked!

No class I had taken, no degree I had earned, no book I had read had trained me to elicit positive behaviors from students who had been trained to exhibit negative behaviors long before they walked through my door.

I spent the rest of that year and the next year doing the same things I had been doing—minus throwing desks. I tried everything I had been taught: I kept behavior charts, called kids’ homes, sent students to the principal’s office, issued warnings, posted rules, established routines, praised good behavior, and imposed punishments for bad behavior. I experimented with other methods: I threatened and cajoled, yelled and lectured, begged and bribed, took away lunch time and recess, and kept kids after school.

It was exhausting, debilitating, and entirely ineffective. I was not teaching. Instead, I was simply reinforcing every negative behavior the students had already learned. Something had to change—and that “something” needed to be me.

That’s why I wrote this manual.

## Why

Fast-forward about 15 years.

It was my favorite time of day. I had just finished my read-aloud—Michael Buckley’s *The Unusual Suspects*, from his Sisters Grimm series. My students, the toughest in the building, had seamlessly begun their Silent Work procedure. The students had transitioned using the Lock-It-In procedure, one team at a time: first the Butterfly Marines, then the Vikings, the Fireballs, the Sharks, and finally, the Tigers. The students immediately went to work completing their leveled reading group assignment from the previous day.

While they worked—yes, worked—I took a few minutes for myself. I sank into my desk chair, rested my chin in my hand, and stared out my open window. It was one of those rare days in May when my classroom was comfortable despite the school’s lack of air conditioning. I looked at my students. Some were still working on their assignments, while others had moved on to books of interest that they read silently while sitting at their desks or lying on the carpet.

I thought back to those first years of teaching. I remembered the anger, frustration, and helplessness I had felt. I remembered the lectures, warnings, and threats I