20 The Classroom Behavior Manual

## Sharing Control in a Healthy Way

Well-meaning teacher education professors often advise their pre-service teachers to share control with their students. This is good advice, and you’ll find that you can either give control to students on your terms, or they will take it on theirs. This is a well-researched dynamic (McCombs, 2010). However, explicit and systematic instruction as to how to do this in a classroom has been difficult to find—until now.

When I first started teaching, I had no idea how to share control, or what control I was supposed to share, or when I was supposed to share it. So I ended up doing what most teachers do: I hoarded the control. This is what teachers typically do when they have a large number of difficult students provoking power struggles. With no training, and with no procedures in place, I felt that I had to hold on to as much control as I could because I felt so out of control. Very quickly, I found myself barking orders in a desperate attempt to gain or maintain that control: “Sit down! Be quiet! Stand up! Line up! Work harder! Pay attention!”

It was exhausting at the time, and it is exhausting to think about now.

Every time I took control away from a challenging student, the student tried to get it back; hence, the term “power struggle.” Sometimes, students would try to regain control through overt aggression (e.g., swearing at me, throwing a chair). Sometimes, they would use passive aggression (e.g., pretending not to hear me, not turning in assignments). Either way, trying to take control away from my students trapped me in power struggles that I was destined to lose—because you never win a power struggle with a child. That’s a fundamental concept we’ll come back to in later chapters.

The Control-Sharing Strategies in this manual, such as Gentle Guidance Interventions and Delayed Learning Opportunities (DLOs), are highly effective and allow you to share control in appropriate ways. They are supported and maintained through explicit, systematic procedures through which you elicit the positive behaviors you want by giving away the control you don’t need.

This manual teaches you how to establish Control-Sharing Procedures as routines, alongside the Relationship-Building Procedures, in the first three weeks of the school year. After that time, implementation of the procedures will require little effort on your part because, again, the students themselves will maintain the routines. Students take ownership over a classroom environment in which they feel safe and trusted enough to learn.