240 The Classroom Behavior Manual

illustrate this, let’s look at every DLO-worthy behavior mentioned in this chapter in terms of a corresponding Practice DLO.

Reminders: These learning opportunities are delayed to a noninstructional time of day. All logistics and details of how to deliver these DLOs will be described later in this chapter.

- DLO-worthy behavior: A 2nd grade student has a temper tantrum in art class and knocks over her table’s art supplies.  
  Practice DLO: The student is required to sit next to neatly arranged art materials for 45 minutes without knocking them to the floor.

- DLO-worthy behavior: A high school junior threatens to beat up a classmate.  
  Practice DLO: The student is required to sit next to a teacher, pretending that he is the threatenee, while he practices not threatening the threatenee.

- DLO-worthy behavior: A 5th grade student destroys school property.  
  Practice DLO: The student is required to sit next to said school property and not destroy it.

- DLO-worthy behavior: An 8th grade student has a tantrum and destroys a classroom. She refuses to clean up the mess, and since class must go on immediately, the teacher and other students are forced to clean the room so that class can continue.  
  Practice DLO: The student practices doing things that the teacher asks her to do: clean paintbrushes, wash tables, stack chairs, and so on.

- DLO-worthy behavior: A student constantly interrupts the teacher.  
  Practice DLO: The student sits and practices not interrupting the teacher.

- DLO-worthy behavior: A student whines habitually.  
  Practice DLO: The student practices not whining. This can be done by simply sitting at a desk and doing anything besides not whining, or practicing having a conversation with the teacher without whining.

- DLO-worthy behavior: A student habitually invades the personal space of other students.