132 The Classroom Behavior Manual

you are ready. Could you lock it in?” Say it so that other students can hear, but don’t make it an announcement.

The benefits of this procedure are tremendous:

- It gives a significant amount of control to your class.
- Instead of taking control away from your HCNCs every time the class needs to transition, it gives them a chance to get control by being quiet and ready.
- It systematically trains HCNCs that being cooperative gives them more control.
- It gives you back hours, if not days, per year. While a student is locking it in, you can be preparing for the next lesson, grading papers, or eating a snack.
- It shows that the maintenance of your classroom is your students’ responsibility, not yours.
- If you feel like it, allowing a student to lock it in gives you the time and energy to do low-level interventions to guide students toward compliance.
- It is one less thing you need to worry about.

Allow your “Lock-It-Iner” to take plenty of time—up to four minutes is fine if it is OK with you and you are not inconveniencing anyone. Keep in mind that this is time that you can spend relaxing or getting things done, all while showing students that the management of the class is their responsibility.

As soon as all students are silent, your Lock-It-Iner will begin to dismiss one team at a time. When students first begin to lead this procedure, they may require some coaching, even in high school. Stand or sit near them so that you can coach them to slow down or speed up. Students may occasionally dismiss a team first when they should have dismissed them last. You will be able to correct this when necessary, though it will happen rarely. You may be surprised how well the Lock-It-Iner naturally uses the Eye Interventions from Chapter 9 if you have modeled them properly and for enough time. As the Lock-It-Iner dismisses teams, you will have the time and energy to stand between where the students are coming from (carpet, desks, etc.) and where they are going (carpet, desks, the door) and use interventions or a Failure to Transition Correctly PLO.

The number of days that you will model the Lock-It-In procedure will depend on your comfort level and what you see as developmentally appropriate for your students (in that order). Here is a suggested number of days depending on grade level:

- 6th and up: after 6 days of modeling
- 5th: after 7 days of modeling
- 4th: after 8 days of modeling