74 The Classroom Behavior Manual

- Preparation. Of course, teachers must already be 100 percent prepared before students arrive. You can’t arrange materials and use the ESPN Greeting with students at the same time. Part of this preparation should include a “fast start” activity that students can do independently when they arrive while you continue to greet students.

- Where to stand. You should position yourself outside the classroom to greet the first student. Walk briskly toward the first arrival, deliver your ESPN Greeting, and accompany the student toward the empty classroom. As students begin to populate the room, stand with one shoulder blade in the room and one outside of the room to monitor both the hallway and the classroom.

- How to stand. Do not attempt to “get down on the student’s level.” For those of you who are vertically challenged or teaching in middle or high school, this may be a moot point, but you should stand the same way that you would stand to meet a colleague. You and the child are not equals. The aforementioned exceptions notwithstanding, you are bigger, stronger, and wiser than your students. Don’t suggest otherwise with your body language.

- When to sit/start teaching. At some point, you must leave the door and begin to engage in other duties, like taking attendance (or teaching!). For teachers of younger students, signing agendas and checking homework might also be necessary. Some classrooms, particularly in secondary schools, might require that teaching begin at the bell. Once you have begun these activities, you must make sure that students come to you for the ESPN Greeting from wherever they are in the classroom. Yes, for middle and high school teachers, this includes coming to you for an ESPN Greeting while you are instructing, even if the student is late. Don’t deal with tardy issues right away. Just greet the student and deal with tardy issues at a time that is convenient for you (see Delayed Learning Opportunities in Chapter 11).

- Abbreviated physical contact for secondary students. If you have 40 students coming into your room seven or eight times a day, a firm handshake for each student might not be practical. A fist bump, high five, or pat on the back might be easier. For first period (generally, homeroom or advisory), students should be arriving at a slower pace. This is a great time for a handshake. If the entire school adopts the ESPN Greeting, each student will still learn and benefit from this firm, respectful, welcoming, and genuine handshake.

- Handshaking protocol. It is important to both model proper technique and use the handshake to establish yourself as an FLA. You want to make contact with the webbing between the student’s thumb and forefinger and the same webbing