Student Job Procedures 115

prompters can express frustration with classmates’ inability to be silent to a prompt. If the student prompter deals with this frustration inappropriately, they should be fired.

## A Word on Group Consequences

When a classroom is in a state of general disarray because of widespread use of antisocial behaviors, many teachers make the mistake of trying to use “retail discipline”: providing each individual with specific, tailor-made consequences. Sometimes, though, “wholesale discipline” is necessary when “retail discipline” becomes too difficult to administer and causes more chaos than it alleviates.

The logical group consequences described here teach a valuable lesson to the entire class. They show everyone that people’s actions affect other people, especially people on the same team. If a basketball player doesn’t play defense, does it affect the entire team? If a person in an office doesn’t pull their weight on a project, does the entire business suffer? If a parent is arrested for driving under the influence, does the entire family’s life become more difficult? Of course, the answer to these questions is “Yes.” School, then, should prepare students by teaching these lessons today instead of waiting for our students to learn them as adults, when the amount of suffering involved for them, their coworkers, their teams, and their families will be significantly higher, and possibly more dangerous.

You may have noticed that there were no consequences for students who did not clean up and prepare to transition at a reasonable pace (the definition of a reasonable pace is entirely up to you). This is because the Behavioral Leadership Classroom is set up so that the natural and/or logical consequences for doing things lackadaisically will befall students either during the prompt’s PLO (if students are not changing locations) or during the Lock-It-In procedure and PLO for students who are changing locations.

## PLO for Prompt to Quiet Failure

When you have used the Prompt to Quiet procedure and performed as many interventions as you feel like, and five or more students are still engaging in an undesired behavior (usually, talking), you can say the following:

Oh, man, [class nickname]. I will be doing something about this later.

Don’t let it ruin your day.