174 The Classroom Behavior Manual

of announcement about the following school day. This trains everyone, including you, to think, “I accomplished something today, and I will accomplish something tomorrow,” instead of “There went another time period of random activity; I suppose another one will happen tomorrow.” Secondary school closure statements may sound like the following:

- (Single class period closure) Student: “Today we learned about elements of quadratic equations. Tomorrow we will learn about using those equations to solve real-world problems.”
- (Last period closure) Student: “Today we learned about elements of quadratic equations. Tomorrow we will learn about using those equations to solve real-world problems. Remember to wear school colors for Spirit Day tomorrow. Goodnight, everybody! Be safe driving home!”

As always, give away as much control to students as is effective and appropriate on how this is done and what is said. Secondary teachers should also see below for specific secondary Activity Choices.

At every level, the Afternoon Meeting procedure allows students to proclaim every day, “This is our classroom, we are awesome, and this is what we accomplished together!”

## Afternoon Prompt

The student hired as End of Day Prompter (see Chapter 6) prompts the class to prepare for Afternoon Meeting at a predetermined time. When selecting the correct time for the End of Day Prompt, do not make the mistake of giving the students considerably more time than they will need to get ready for the meeting in the future. Teachers who do this accidentally train their students to be slower at this transition than they need to be. Instead, assign a time that you think will be appropriate for your students all year long. If you pick the right time, students will feel challenged to be ready in a timely manner. Give extra support at the beginning of the year in the form of Gentle Guidance Interventions, with an emphasis on the questions from the Question Matrix (see Chapter 9). Allow students to rise to the challenge with your calm guidance. Most important, remember to use Strategic Noticing with students and teams who are transitioning quickly:

- “I notice Red is being efficient and quick.”
- “I notice the Dinos taking care of business.”