Gentle Guidance Interventions 197

**22. Curious Eye/Quick Head Shake.** This is a combination GGI. Use Curious Eye (#1) while also shaking your head “no” very quickly. The idea behind the “quick shake” is that it shows the student that you are trying to allow them to save face—you are trying not to embarrass them, just giving a quick head shake before anyone notices. This can build the relationship, while calling them out would hurt it. It says to the student, “Let’s keep this between us, but please stop.”

**23. Confused Eye/Quick Head Shake.** Another combination that is exactly the same as #19 with a different look.

**24. Request Thinking (Nonverbal).** This involves a quick tap of your temple. That’s it! The silent message is that it would perhaps be a good idea to use some increased brain power to be able to use the correct, positive behavior.

Here is a good place to stop and look back at GGIs #1–24. Do you notice anything important? More specifically, do you notice something missing? Something that is a particularly important part of traditional discipline?

Did you notice that there has been absolutely no talking?

That’s right, you have not made a single sound! You haven’t spoken a word. Talking takes energy that you don’t need to spend. If you can stop a behavior without talking, why would you talk? No teacher in the history of the world has ever walked to their car at the end of the school day thinking, “Today I wish I had talked more to my students about discipline.” While using a GGI above #21 demands a good reason to do so, you should have a great reason to use an intervention higher than #24! Rest assured, however, that you will have plenty of students who give you some great reasons to use GGIs #25–42, so let’s keep going!

**25. Request Thinking (Verbal).** You are finally going to speak! This one is done exactly like #24, but when you point to your temple you calmly say, “Think.” This will be helpful scaffolding for students who do not yet know where their brains are. I have traditionally used the verbal request for thinking once per year with my students to make sure everyone is familiar with their own brain location, and then I fall back to the nonverbal intervention.

**26. Noticing Misdirect.** This GGI is sometimes called “the perfect intervention.” It is simultaneously a preventive pre-intervention for one student who is using a positive behavior and a GGI for another student who is using a negative behavior. What’s more, while most of the other GGIs minimize attention of negative behaviors, Noticing Misdirect gives no attention to these behaviors. Even better, you already know how to do it.