Relationship-Building Strategies 49

think about which one you are doing! It will be fantastically simple and will be the number one tool in eliciting positive behaviors that you will ever use.

## The How

To use Strategic Noticing in response to positive behaviors, simply say the following:

I noticed [enter positive behavior here].

That’s it. There’s nothing else. If there is anything else, you did it wrong.

The list of positive behaviors that you can notice is literally endless. Here are some that you can use in your classroom:

- I noticed that you are listening.
- I noticed that you are working hard.
- I noticed that you treat people well.
- I noticed that you play fair.
- I noticed that you sat down and got right to work.
- I noticed that you waited patiently for me.
- I noticed that you waited silently in line.
- I noticed that you washed your hands thoroughly.
- I noticed that you are silent.
- I noticed that you all are silent.
- I noticed that you all are staying to the right of the hallway.
- I noticed that you all are working cooperatively.
- I noticed that you raised your hand.

You can also notice when students accomplish things academically.

- I noticed that you indented your paragraph.
- I noticed that you balanced the equation before solving for x.
- I noticed that you followed through when passing the ball.
- I noticed that you all are using the word wall to spell your words correctly.

## Praise Is Not Effective Enough

Note that the strategy involved noticing, not praise. Praise can be somewhat effective with healthy students. It will not be effective with difficult students. Even so, “somewhat effective” is not good enough. “Somewhat effective” means that the teacher has to do too much thinking and that the strategy only works sometimes with some students.