156 The Classroom Behavior Manual

Write introductory narrative paragraph  
Answer reading questions #1–4  
Laters  
Create team tags  
Read  
Recess  

Again, let the procedure do the teaching. Instead of lecturing students about the consequence, allow them to learn from the consequences.

## Further Differentiation

Aside from the inherent differentiation detailed above, Real-World Workshop can create a fantastic platform for more fully differentiating for all students, regardless of their academic levels. Special education students, gifted students, and students with cognitive issues and other special needs can all be served optimally using Real-World Workshop. Below are various ways to differentiate. For some students, these differentiations may be planned and facilitated, at least in part, by gifted and special education intervention specialists. Feel free to use any methods that are appropriate for the students that you serve.

The first, simplest, and most conventional way to differentiate is to simply create different Nows for different groups of students. Having different groups for math and reading, for example, could involve two different assignments for each of these subjects, designated by two different colors:

**Nows**  
Math book, page 1, #6–12/ page 1, #6–9  
Write introductory narrative paragraph  
Answer reading questions #1–4/#1–2  

**Laters**  
Create team tags  
Read  
?  

This grouping may be enough to sufficiently differentiate for most students. Those who need more can have their own Workshop Folders that they keep with them. For some students, their folders may include additional and enriching Laters that other students might not be ready for, such as the following:

**Laters**  
Create Team Tags  
Read