232 The Classroom Behavior Manual

While traditional discipline yields far more of these types of outbursts, they may still happen even if you use every single procedure and strategy in this book perfectly. After all, a student may have been beaten or neglected or assaulted immediately before school. In some of these cases, an outburst may be completely inevitable and, of course, not the student’s fault. It is also possible that belligerent behavior has “gotten that student out of trouble” in the past, reinforcing its use.

In these cases, offer students a chance to compose themselves in a Mindfulness Center. If that fails to resolve the problem, remember the importance of keeping your students safe. Once you have given the DLO Delaying Script, you have successfully initiated the process. Do not proceed with any more of the process until later, when everyone is calm. If the student becomes belligerent, you can send them to a Mindfulness Center, use the Coach’s Gambit, or create a Reverse Mindfulness Break.

If these interventions fail to keep you and your students safe, you can rely on emergency procedures that have already been established by your school to respond to emergencies. When students pose an immediate physical danger to themselves or others, restraint by a trained staff member may be appropriate and necessary. If students run out of the room, someone from outside your classroom must be dispatched to provide nonresponsive monitoring (NRM), in which they completely ignore the student while staying physically present to keep them safe.

While these tactics in keeping students safe may be necessary, they are not DLOs! They are merely the necessary means of keeping students safe. When another person has to be dispatched to restrain, follow, ignore, or use nonresponsive monitoring on your student, this should trigger, at a time in the future, massive, overwhelming DLOs (see below). Behaviors that cause other people besides the classroom teacher to have to deal with behaviors must be crushed as quickly as possible, because a school is not structured to have other adults having to “put out fires” for teachers. This simply cannot happen, or the school will descend into chaos.

Again for clarity and emphasis: behaviors that require adults from outside the classroom to react in order to keep students safe must be crushed through massive, overwhelming DLOs.

---

# Three Kinds of Learning Opportunities

There are only three kinds of learning opportunities for humans in this Universe:

1. Natural Learning Opportunities (NLOs)