158 The Classroom Behavior Manual

make sure that it is completed before they do their Laters. If a student says that they didn’t do their homework, you can just say, “Don’t worry about it. You can do it today before you do your Laters. I’ll like you whether you do your homework at home or at school!”

## Today’s Homework

Allowing students to do the homework assigned that day as a Later has a profound effect. Students who love learning and working hard often love to get homework done in class to feel good about themselves and perhaps to benefit from your expert instruction before going home where there is no teacher to enrich their intellectual exploits. Other students want to get done with their homework at school so they can go out and play basketball immediately after arriving at home. Either way, having “Today’s homework” as a Later can be a game-changer.

## Recess Work

If a particular assignment or assignments have remained undone for a length of time that you find to be unreasonable, and if it is acceptable to your administration and consistent with your value structure, you can move that assignment from the Nows column to a new column: Recess Work. When this happens, students must stay in from recess until their Recess Work is completed. If you deem it to be appropriate, “Old homework” can become Recess Work.

**Nows**  
Write introductory narrative paragraph  
Answer reading questions #1–4  

**Recess Work**  
Math book, page 1, #6–12  
Old homework  

**Laters**  
Create Team Tags  
Read  
?

## Behavioral Nows

Once all academic Nows have been completed, those students who need to do so can practice a positive behavior, solve a problem that they caused, or destress an adult or student as a behavioral Now. (There will be more discussion of these Delayed Learning Opportunity techniques in Chapter 11.) In this case, your Nows and Laters