36 The Classroom Behavior Manual

# Addressing Team and Seat Changes

When parents ask if their child can move seats, the short answer is “There will be no team or seat changes.”

No matter how well you arrange your students, difficulties between them will arise throughout the year. Students who don’t like each other will have issues; students who like each other will have issues. This is normal, healthy, and expected. From time to time, students will become frustrated or upset, and they will want to move. Likewise, parents might become aggravated that their student is having trouble with another student on their team. They will want you to move their student or the other student. At some point, even you might be exasperated and think that you can fix a problem by moving someone. Fight the urge to attempt to solve the problem this way.

Why? Because students need to figure out how to deal with different, difficult, and otherwise disagreeable people. The price tag for doing so while still in school is as low as it will ever be. The costs of learning to navigate social challenges go up as students age and venture forth into the world as adults. It is better that students learn strategies for dealing with people they dislike or with whom they have differences in the safer environment of school, as minors, rather than later, in a less protected environment at an age when they are held to greater account for their actions.

Also, as you will learn in Chapter 7, you will be monitoring students and gently guiding them toward positive behaviors. You will also be using consequences to teach prosocial behaviors so that students will not cause problems for others, regardless of where they are sitting. In short, your classroom will be the safest, most well-monitored place for students to learn how to deal with difficult people.

---

## How to Respond to Concerned and Disgruntled Parents

To begin with, as you make your plans at the beginning of the school year, I urge you not to send out a position paper on your permanent seating policy. You want to avoid organizing your own mob of angry parents. Later, if parents complain that it’s “not fair” that their student must sit next to the class bully, or daydreamer, or kid who eats her snot, then you can explain that life is not fair. Gently add that you care too much for their student to trick the student into thinking that life is always fair and accommodating.