Academic Control-Sharing Procedures 165

I will also ask you all if you want to listen to music or not, and then I will give you two choices of music.

**For elementary students, continue with the following:**

Some of you may struggle with tuning your ears to being able to hear the proper voice level and talking at or below that voice level. That is totally normal. Everyone is different. If you accidentally talk above the proper voice level, I will give you a chance to put your head down and listen carefully to the voice level so you can tune your ears to what it sounds like. Sometime later, I will come to you and ask if you can hear our silence. If you think that you have properly tuned your ears, you can tell me using the proper voice level, or give me a thumbs-up if we are on silent. If you need more time, you can tell me, or give me a thumbs-down if we are on silent, and I will give you more time so you can go back to ear tuning.

**For secondary students, say the following:**

Here’s the deal, folks. You have probably dealt with teachers nagging you about your voice level in class for a long time. You are in ___ grade, which means you’ve probably been nagged about voice level for ___ years. That has to have been annoying, and I’m sorry about that. We all know what happens: one person speaks 1 percent louder than everyone else, and then everyone speaks 1 percent louder than everyone else, and then everyone gets louder, and so on. It’s just kind of natural, and in some ways it isn’t really anyone’s fault. Then the teacher gets frustrated, and then you get annoyed by the nagging teacher, and so on and so forth.

The good news for you all is that I will never nag you and none of us will have to be in a room where it’s too loud—ever. The reality is that when anyone is in a room that starts to get loud, your ears and voices just “go out of tune”: you lose the ability to hear the right voice level, and your voice just naturally gets louder. What we are going to do is have a system for not letting our ears and voices get “out of tune.” Once you all choose your preferred voice level and we get started, I, or one of you, will be in charge of retuning people. If you talk above the chosen voice level—and it isn’t a big deal if you do—the Retuner will go and give a sign that you need to retune. We’ll vote on a signal later if you want, but for now the sign is just quietly saying, “Retune,” and tapping the person gently on the shoulder. Don’t embarrass the person by saying this loudly. Then, if you were the one who went out of tune, just put your head down so no one can see your eyes, with your entire head above the desk or table. Just