Delayed Learning Opportunities 243

students would remember you saying you would get them ice cream ___ days ago, they can remember their past behavior for at least that long. And if students do forget, you can remind them!

Still, it is optimal for students to be able to recall the behavior. The following statements are given with the understanding that the age of students is in reference to regular education students. Special education teachers know best what is appropriate for their students. These are also very generalized guidelines.

Students above 1st grade can have DLOs delayed for several days; students in middle and high school can have DLOs delayed for weeks. Kindergarten and 1st grade students should usually have DLOs delivered within 48 hours of the behavior. It can be slightly longer for more advanced students or for students near the end of 1st grade. PreK students should usually not have DLOs delayed for more than 24 hours—in other words, not longer than when the behavior happened the previous day. Remember that a learning opportunity delayed for five minutes (perhaps just long enough to transition from painting to discovery play) is still a Delayed Learning Opportunity.

2. Honeymoon period generation. As a principal, I once delayed a middle school student’s DLO for two weeks just because his teachers reported that this exceedingly difficult student had been perfect since I had informed him of the DLO. Often the mere introduction of the DLO will stop not only the triggering behavior but also other negative behaviors, as the student is concerned with what the DLO might entail. The delay can cause a “honeymoon period” that you should not be in a hurry to end.

3. Whether inevitability has been achieved. Students who have come from classrooms taught by teachers who have not read this book, either the previous year or during the same year after transferring schools, will likely not understand that it is inevitable that the terminal destination for their repeated or serious negative behaviors will be a DLO. When this is the case, it may be a good idea to not wait too long to give the DLO. Before the DLO delivery, the student may have the mistaken impression that you won’t actually give a DLO when you say you will. In this case, it’s a good idea to make the DLO a priority. However, don’t give it so soon that the student (and you) are still not in a thinking state.

If you are at a school where teachers have all read this manual, DLO inevitability will already be programmed into students. While students may test you at the beginning of the year, the only students who don’t understand the inevitability of DLOs will be transfer students.