Relationship-Building Procedures 93

“You have the freedom to do anything you want that does not cause a problem” or “You can do you whatever you feel like doing unless it causes a problem.” Tell students that with a rule like that, you won’t be tempted to lecture them. Students, especially difficult ones, should like this rule more than most rules imposed on them in the past. The same can probably not be said for “Be nice,” “Be kind,” and “Be respectful.” They’ve probably heard—and been lectured—about these simple phrases many times. In addition, the fact that they co-created the rule makes it inherently more palatable.
12. Congratulate the class on coming up with a fine set of rules!

## Work Hard?

As noted, “work hard” does not need to be a rule. If the class doesn’t come up with it, that’s fine. If they want to get rid of it, that’s OK, too. The teacher can also remove it, claiming that it might be used to lecture students. That can be a good idea with especially tough students.
Teachers should never tell students to work, because they can’t make them work. Instead, the Real-World Workshop procedure (see Chapter 8) teaches students to realize that their life improves when they work hard. Students learn the benefit of working hard, so there’s no need to try to make them work hard. Note: the procedure does the teaching—not the teacher. If a class does keep “Work hard” as a rule and a student isn’t working hard, the teacher can ask, “What is our rule about working?” Other than that, an effective teacher never tries to make a student work.
- If you are like most teachers, you just had a thought akin to “That’s ridiculous. That won’t work. If I don’t lecture kids about hard work and its benefits, they’ll all become lazy!” You will just have to trust me on this point until you begin to implement the Real-World Workshop procedure. To hold you over until then, know this: every single one of the hundreds of students who have used the Real-World Workshop in my classroom became extremely hard workers without me spending any time trying to lecture them into working.

## Does This/That Cause a Problem?

“You are free to do whatever you want as long as it doesn’t cause a problem.”
This rule is nice because it’s one rule. It’s easy to remember and easy to apply. Still, students will test it, and you want them to. Most won’t realize right away just