Academic Control-Sharing Procedures 179

# How to Begin Activity Choices

Say the following from a Power Position:

> I will give activity choices when everyone is seated silently.

Then wait.

Do nothing but wait and pray that your students keep talking until all time is gone and everyone has to leave. Hope that this happens on multiple days. As previously stated, this is an MS: not being able to participate in the situation is a consequence in and of itself. In very, very rare cases (I have never experienced it during the use of this procedure), you can give whole-group, small-group, or individual Delayed Learning Opportunities for the failure to be silent to a prompt once that student or those students have sufficiently frustrated their classmates over the course of several days.

Once everyone is silent, offer three activity choices, even if you are 100 percent sure you know what the students will pick. (Hopefully you were able to teach and beta-test three activities on your first day.) Have students vote. Play the winning game and have fun!

## The Magic of Choices

When I was teaching, after the TOD team captain completed the review of the daily schedule, I would walk to my chair in front of my students before giving the Activity Choices prompt: “I will give activity choices when everyone is seated silently.”

Every single year, for 10 years of doing this procedure, something magical occurred in the first three weeks of school. Before I could even sit down in my chair, students would say the same word to each other—the same word for 10 straight years: “Choices! Choices!” they would say, often followed by some shushing. After four or five weeks, the class would consistently go silent before I could make it to my chair.

This can happen for any teacher who picks games and activities that are at least as stimulating as going home.

## Games

Red Ball. Students and teachers stand in a circle so that everyone can see each other. The teacher pantomimes catching an invisible ball thrown from an invisible