Relationship-Building Procedures 89

3. **Follow a similar voting procedure as used for the Class Applause.** Remind students to discuss their ideas with one another as they are able.
4. **After the vote, encourage everyone to celebrate by practicing the handshake with a team member.**

The Class Handshake is a good opportunity to come up with an abbreviated form of safe physical contact. You can use this contact with each student entering and leaving your classroom every day. Some classes choose a fist bump, forearm tap, or high five. Classes can add a verbal element, as well.

The process of voting and choosing the physical contact reinforces students’ sense of ownership and helps you build your relationship with them. This applies even to the “too cool for school” students who roll their eyes and look bored while not voting. If students have the opportunity to vote and decline it, it’s OK. The reason for these procedures is to offer control and ownership, not for students to accept them.

# Class Rules

Making rules for students’ behavior prior to their arrival is a mistake. There is no action more alienating for students than walking into a room on the first day of school and seeing a list of rules already posted. Human history shows us that people rebel against rules imposed on them without their input or consent. It also shows that the most harmonious and happy societies are those in which the governed create and agree to their own rules by a democratic process. Students, like all citizens, require control and freedom, as well as a right to due process when the fairness of the rule or its application is in question.

To instill a sense of ownership and build a positive relationship with students, teachers must allow them to create their own rules. Otherwise, students and teacher will be locked in ongoing power struggles. Again, you should never post rules before students arrive on the first day. Instead, wait for students to get there, then invite them to make the rules.

Here’s how.

## The Procedure

1. **Get started right away.** On the first day of school, in the first two hours of instruction, get students started on creating their own Class Rules. This should take 15 to 25 minutes. While you can provide developmentally appropriate breaks, it’s best to do this all in one sitting.