Before They Arrive 29

3. Use whatever data you have about each student’s academic ability to rank your students from A to E. Assign the five top academic performers an “A,” the next five most proficient students a “B,” and so on. If you find that you need more information, seek it out. It will be time well spent. This includes researching students who are new to the district, even if all you can find are parents’ comments offering a general sense of past academic performance. Write academic ranks on students’ cards. You might also add clarifying information on a students’ academic performance. (Note: Adjust the number of rankings you assign based on the number of students on teams: A to D for teams of four students, A to F for teams of six students.)

4. Use whatever information you have about each student’s behavior to rank your students from 1 to 5. Assign the five students who have a record of exhibiting the most positive behaviors a “1.” Assign the five students who have a history of exhibiting the most negative behaviors “5.” Rank the remaining students in groups from 2 to 4 based on their general behavior history. Again, if you need to, seek out information from former teachers and administrators. (Note: Approach parents only as a last resort, as they are often ineffective reporters in this area.) When determining a behavioral rank, consider each student’s level of cooperation, treatment of other students, treatment of educators, self-treatment, willingness to work, and general attitude. Write behavioral ranks on students’ cards. You might also add clarifying information on a student’s behavioral history. (Note: Adjust the number of rankings you assign based on the number of students on teams: 1 to 4 for teams of four students, 1 to 6 for teams of six students.)

5. Sit in a comfortable place with a large flat surface in front of you; a kitchen table can be ideal. Arrange your teams using your completed student cards. Put an equal number of students (or as close to an equal number as you can) on each team. Make sure that each team has a balance of academic and behavioral ranks. For example, each of our sample teams should have at least one A, B, C, D, and E as well as a 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5. Any number of combinations is possible. For example, one team may have A1, B3, C2, D5, E4, but another might end up with A1, B4, C3, D2, E5. Try to balance the number of girls and boys on each team and to do what is necessary to create diverse teams within your classroom. Consider all known factors including, but not limited to, race/ethnicity, gender identification, physical disabilities, and so on. Perfect distribution is not as important as simply making an effort to not have homogeneous teams.