110 The Classroom Behavior Manual

work/cleanup, for lunch/cleanup, for the end of the day/get quiet). Let them know that you will be hiring a student to prompt the rest of the class to (insert prompting procedure here) every day. At some point during that day or period, hire a student according to the Hiring Procedure detailed above. Make sure that the student knows what time to use the prompt. Let them know that they will be fired if you notice that it is even one second past the time when they were supposed to prompt the class. Then manage them according to Training Procedures and fire them according to Firing Procedures.

Only tell students how to do the job one time per year, even for prekindergartners. Reminders and lectures about hurrying and transitioning better and faster make it less likely that students will hurry and transition better and faster. Instead, prompt students with interventions and use consequences when students are not cooperative and interventions have failed to effectively guide individual students to desired behaviors (see Chapter 9). Students will know what to do with the help of the interventions. More importantly, they will figure things out by seeing what their peers are doing. You can differentiate for younger students or for students with cognitive issues simply by using more interventions. This is preferable to repeating directions and warning students, which takes more time and encourages negative behaviors. When and if an entire class struggles with effectively transitioning to a prompt, implement a wholesale Class Procedural Learning Opportunity (see Chapter 7).

**Morning Cleanup Prompter procedures.** A teacher has so much to do every morning. Not having to tell students to clean up is one less thing to think about, gives control to your class at the beginning of school every day, and reminds every student every day that their classroom is truly theirs. Whether your class is a high school homeroom, a half-day kindergarten classroom, a 3rd grade classroom where everyone eats free breakfast in the room, or a 5th grade class who stays together throughout the morning for language arts, every classroom has a beginning of the day, so all teachers can use this prompt.

On the first day of school, prompt students when it is time to transition from whatever activity they are doing as they arrive (eating breakfast or doing a quick-start activity, for example) to whatever activity is next. Students should always have an activity to do during arrival. The following teacher prompts take the minimal amount of control from students while still prompting them to stop an activity. There are different prompts depending on the age of the students and the activity being stopped, as well as the activity being started. Notice that these prompts include two assumptions necessary for optimal student cooperation: the assumption of intelligence, and the assumption of cooperation.