146 The Classroom Behavior Manual

more students not getting done in any given week than you had the week before. If you do, you are not following these procedures correctly, not giving enough time, or giving work that is too challenging for some students.

This procedure requires too much work for you to do for very long. Second through 12th grade teachers should move on to the Tagging Taggers subprocedure below within the first three weeks of school; preK–1st grade teachers may take up to six weeks.

## Tagging Taggers

This subprocedure is identical to Tagging in all ways but one. When you tag taggers, you will have help holding students accountable for finishing their work. Say the following once the TOD member is done reviewing the Quick Start Activity:

> We will be starting something fun today that we will do for the rest of the year. Instead of me tagging everyone when they are done, I will simply tag the first person who is done on each team. That person will become the tagger for their team and will be in charge of helping their teammates and tagging them when they are done. Finally, they will be in charge of telling me if anyone didn’t get done in time so I know who has to finish their Quick Start Activity after their other Nows during Real-World Workshop or at recess/lunch.

Then go around and find one student on each team who is done first. This will have the side effect of students not allowing other students to copy off their work before a tagger is chosen from each team. Also, the first person done on each team is almost always quite proficient at the skills necessary to complete the work and will be similarly proficient at teaching and helping other students. Once you have chosen a tagger from a team, ignore that team—they have a new teacher.

Many teachers, myself included, don’t give the option for students to complete the Quick Start Activity during Real-World Workshop, but allow them to do so if they ask. In a decade of using this procedure, I’ve never had a class who didn’t quickly figure out that they could get their work checked by their teacher during workshop instead of during recess. This, of course, increases ownership of the work.

## Real-World Workshop Procedure

The way teachers traditionally organize independent work time for students prepares students for a world that no longer exists; systematically disincentivizes hard work;