Mindfulness Breaks 217

# What If They Don’t Go?

Take a moment to look back at the number of Control-Sharing and Relationship-Building Strategies and Procedures that you are now able to put in place in your classroom. From ESPN Greetings, to **Strategic Noticing**, to all of the prevention woven into the procedures, to the **GGIs**, consider for a moment how different and more cooperative your students will be once you put these methods in place.

Now consider the MBI menu and pay specific attention to how rare it should be to actually direct a student to take a Mindfulness Break. In the context of so much effective prevention and efforts to use **Choice MBIs** first, the use of **Directive MBIs** should be infrequent. If you do use a **Directive MBI**, there is a chance that a student might refuse. If you are faithfully using all of the preventive and other mitigative methods of this manual, the chances of this happening are low, but still, it may happen. Below is a list of DLOs for students who refuse to take a Mindfulness Break when directed to. These interventions are not designed to make it less likely to refuse to take a Mindfulness Break the next time this situation arises; they are only designed to enable you to continue teaching with a minimum of disruption to student learning and a minimum of disruption to school staff. What will teach the student to go to a Mindfulness Center when requested is a specific, simple, and very serious DLO that will put much or all of the student’s social time on pause until they learn to go to the Mindfulness Center when asked.

For the rest of the elements of this manual to work perfectly, it is essential that students are able to use Mindfulness Breaks effectively. As you may recall, Mindfulness Breaks are the alternative to two destructive tactics of traditional discipline: sending students to the principal, and using sensory rooms as an escape for students who cannot regulate their behavior—both practices that can envelop students in chaos and possibly enter them into the school-to-prison pipeline. Therefore, students must be trained, with serious DLOs, to use these breaks effectively. For many of them, it could be a matter of life and death.

While you can feel confident that you will be able to train your students to use Mindfulness Breaks over the course of the school year, that confidence does you no good in the moment when a student is refusing, sometimes loudly, to take one. Here is another menu for what to do when a student refuses to take a Mindfulness Break when requested to. Remember the guidelines: