Relationship-Building Procedures 85

and teachers at lunch, one teacher can create nicknames for one class, and another teacher can create nicknames for the other.

**After the Ceremony**

From that day onward, use only the student’s nickname. Do not use the student’s real name. Once a student has a nickname, you will strengthen your relationship with that student every time you say their name!

The day after the ceremony, give the newly christened student blank adhesive nametags. Explain that the student now has a personal “Later” (see Chapter 8): they can write the nickname on the tags, decorate them, and place them wherever you indicate. In my room, the nametags go on a student’s locker and workbook bin. For younger students, you might want to place the tags after the student has completed them.

**Additional Considerations**

Teachers should keep in mind these additional guidelines:

- Allow students to write their nicknames on their work, with a few exceptions. During standardized testing, you must remind students to put their real names on high-stakes tests, as the test grader will not know who “Princess Giggles” is. At the pre-K, kindergarten, and 1st grade levels, permit students to write their nicknames on their work only after they have mastered writing their real names. This serves as a great incentive for younger students to learn to spell and write their names.
- Do not spend time trying to get administrators or specials teachers to learn students’ nicknames. They have enough to worry about. As the only adult who knows all your students’ nicknames, you will further secure your status as a Friendly, Loving Alpha.
- Begin and continue the ceremony only when everyone is quiet to a level of your satisfaction (I prefer silent). To get students to the desired level, you can use the procedures for giving activity choices at the end of Afternoon Meeting (see page 173), and list “Nickname Ceremony” as one of the choices.
- Conduct ceremonies at the end of the day (elementary) and at the end of the class period (secondary). Don’t feel like a ceremony must be held the day that you decide on a nickname. If you end up short on time (e.g., perhaps a fire drill or other event disrupted the schedule, or you just got behind), or students are not