Academic Control-Sharing Procedures 181

Who’s got the rhythm of the eyes? (woooooo!!!!) [while throwing hands in the air]  
We got the rhythm of the eyes. (woooooo!!!!) [same motions]  
The teacher then says, “Everybody!” and goes through the song slightly faster. The song gets faster each time until students can no longer keep up.

This game teaches kids to listen, concentrate, and work cooperatively.

**Shake It Out.** This game involves students and teachers standing in a circle so everyone can see everyone else. The teacher briefly describes how to play the game, and asks for students to join in. The teacher shakes a hand limp-wristedly, as if to flick something sticky off, counting each shake up to 10: “1-2-3-4-5-6-7-8-9-10.” The teacher then does the same with the other hand, then with one foot (kicking a limp foot forward off the ground 10 times) and then the other foot.

The group then repeats the sequence of shakes, counting only to 9 each time: “1-2-3-4-5-6-7-8-9.” Next, the sequences go to 8, 7, and so on, speeding up slightly as the game proceeds. The game ends when everyone very quickly counts to one with each appendage: “1-1-1-1”

This game teaches kids to listen, concentrate, and work cooperatively.

**Mr. Ervin Dodgeball.** This game should be played in a gym or outside with one or two foam dodgeballs. Play this game at your own risk and do not use anything other than official foam dodgeballs. Using anything else will likely cause injuries, and Ervin Educational Consulting is not responsible for any injuries incurred by playing this game. In any case, make sure your administrator approves the playing of this game.

Create boundaries for play. The field of play should be small enough that students can all be eliminated by being hit with balls in a reasonable amount of time, but big enough that they can run freely without running into each other. If physical boundaries (lines on a gym floor or trees, bushes, or outer walls of the school) are not available, use cones, or ask four students who do not wish to play to be the four corners of the field of play.

**Rules**  
- The objective of the game is to be the last player remaining.  
- The teacher is the all-time thrower of balls. If the teacher hits a student anywhere on their body, they are out.  
- If the student catches the ball, they are out.  
- If the ball bounces off the ground and hits the student, they are out.  
- If the ball bounces off another student and hits a student, both are out.  
- If a student goes outside the boundaries, they are out.