200 The Classroom Behavior Manual

to respectfully let the student think about why the otherwise OK behavior is a negative behavior in a school context.

**35. “Does that cause a problem?”** This simply asks if a behavior goes against the rule that the class made up (see Chapter 5). If the student replies that they do not feel that the behavior causes a problem, this presents an even better opportunity not only to avoid hoarding control but to share that control more fully. In this case, thoughtfully say the following to the student:

> You know, you may be right. Let’s talk later about this. I want to hear your thoughts. For now, just do me a favor and stop, and we’ll figure it out later together.

Later, you can ask about the logic behind the student’s thought process and render a decision. This shouldn’t lead to a Delayed Learning Opportunity. If you feel that the student is, in fact, correct that the behavior does not cause a problem, you should agree and even announce the decision to the class, emphasizing that you were wrong and the student was right. You can also open the entire discussion up to the class and have them decide. This will build the relationship whether you agree or disagree with the student. At the very least, you respected them enough to think that they might be right, and you took the time to hear them out.

**36. “Are you OK?”** These should often be the first words by any human who sees another human being who appears to be suffering. This is very helpful with students who are in tears, appear to be agitated, have their heads down on a desk, or walk into a room with a frown.

**37. Change the Student’s Location.** This is another GGI that has been used by teachers for years. You can ask a student who is causing a problem to move or ask a student who is being bothered by the other student’s negative behaviors to move. You can also have a student move for no reason at all, just to remove any possible punitive feeling from this GGI. It is best to assume cooperation in this case by asking, “Could you move over here? Thanks,” and immediately moving away as you say the words. Note that these changes in location are merely temporary until the next transition.

**38. Contraband Removal.** This can be done as a follow-up to Contraband Tap if the contraband is not removed. It can also be done as the first intervention when contraband is present. Simply take the contraband. Whether and when you use this GGI will depend on you: how important is it to you that all