62 The Classroom Behavior Manual

**Step 1: Admit ignorance.** Don’t do this immediately. First model the behavior by pausing and thinking, perhaps with a confused look. Then say the magic words: “I don’t know.”

**Step 2: Ask someone in the class for an answer.** Do not skip this step. It gives you the opportunity to let your students know that you respect their intelligence level. You can ask the entire class if they know the answer. Or you can show specific students that you respect their superior knowledge on a subject by asking them the question instead of or before asking the entire class.

**Step 3: Go find the answer.** If it is an academic unknown and there is time to do so, model finding the answers to problems by using whatever resources are appropriate or convenient. Whenever possible, use the academic resources available in the form of textbooks, glossaries, and so on, but also feel free to simply use the internet. The lesson is in the doing: not knowing things is fine; just go find the answer!

# Listening

Telling teachers who work in a chaotic classroom environment to calmly and thoughtfully listen when students are talking is perhaps the most ignorant, useless, tone-deaf advice that someone can give a teacher. As all teachers who have been in this situation know, this kind of listening is impossible when chaos is happening all around you. That is why the use of this skill when working with difficult students is really only possible in the context of using the procedures and other strategies contained in this book. Once you are using them and have cured most or all of the chaos, then you can listen in such a way that will help build relationships. It doesn’t work the other way around; you can’t build relationships with students quickly and strongly enough and thereby get order just by listening to them.

While this may seem obvious, some of your students will never have been listened to in this way by anyone, or at least not by an authority figure. Students who are only listened to by friends in this way will only listen to their friends. Think about the friends of your most difficult students. Doesn’t it seem important for your students to be listened to by someone besides their friends?

This is how to listen to your students effectively, whether they are coming to you for advice or asking an academic question.

1. Look at your student. Take your eyes off the computer screen or teachers’ edition textbook and make eye contact with your student.