182 The Classroom Behavior Manual

- If a ball is motionless on the ground, a student may pick it up and throw it back to the teacher. That student cannot be a target for one throw from the teacher. Once that teacher throws the ball at someone else, that student can be a target again.
- If a ball goes outside the boundaries, students may retrieve it and give it to the thrower without being counted as out.
- As each student is hit and is out, they stand along the barrier, forming a physical rectangle around the playing area.
- The last student remaining wins.

*Variations*  
This game can be played with one ball and one teacher, two balls and one teacher, or two balls and two teachers. The winner can become the thrower in the next game, which can be played without the teacher, but the teacher being the thrower helps greatly in building relationships with students, so be a thrower whenever you can. Finally, the teacher can be a thrower at the same time as a student.

Remember, the key word is “fun.” Make sure you are having fun. Make sure the students are having fun. If the last thing you do before you do your ESPN Goodbye is enjoy the company of your students, and your students see you enjoying them, it will go a long way toward building relationships with your students.

**ESPN Goodbye Procedure**  
The final Control-Sharing Procedure is an ESPN Goodbye. Where you give the ESPN Goodbye will depend upon where, according to the logistics of your school, you last see your students. Secondary teachers can even do this at the end of each period. Though this form of the ESPN Goodbye may only be a high five or fist bump or some other “tap” for reasons of timing, it will go a very long way to show your students that you care about them.

Usually, secondary teachers will last see their last period students as they walk out of the classroom. Elementary teachers could be dismissing bus students, car riders, and after-school care students from the room or dropping them off in bus lots, after-school care, or car lots. Wherever you last see a student, that is where you should use the ESPN Goodbye procedure.

You can decide when to use a standard handshake and when to use the Class Handshake. Often, teachers use the former in the morning and the latter at the end of