Delayed Learning Opportunities 261

know that you had to leave and go home so we could keep you guys and the other students safe. Right now, you two are really struggling with being peaceful and calm around each other. Since you are in four of each other’s classes, as well as a study hall and lunch, this is an important skill for you to master. I don’t know what’s going on with you guys, and frankly, it’s none of my business. All that is my business is that you learn this skill for the sake of everyone’s safety. I am going to have you guys practice being safe and peaceful around each other. You will be able to rejoin the school’s general population as soon as you have mastered this skill. Feel free to hate and despise each other as much as you would like. All you have to do is not be violent. How long do you need to practice not hurting each other, two days or three days?”

“Two days.”

“OK, two days it is. The way that you will practice is that you will sit next to each other for two days. If you can manage to not hurt each other for those two days, you will have shown me that you are experts at not hurting each other, and you can go back to living your lives. The problem is that right now, I’d be crazy to just have you guys sit next to each other, because every indication leads me to believe that you are not experts at being peaceful, and I’d rather you two not hurt each other. So I’m going to have you practice this like you are playing a video game, with levels, starting with “easy” level, then “medium” level, then “difficult” level, and ending with “boss” level.

“Here’s how this will go: The easy level will involve you guys sitting next to each other on either side of a brick wall. In a minute, we are going to go over to the elementary wing. I have arranged for you guys to sit on either side of a wall between two 2nd grade classrooms. Please understand that I am not trying to embarrass you or imply that you were acting like 2nd graders or anything like that. Actually, the opposite is true: I’m taking you guys over there because I didn’t want to embarrass you by having you do this around your friends. The easy level will take all day today. As long as you can pass the easy level today by not causing any problems or hurting each other or trying to break down the wall to get at each other, you will report here tomorrow for instructions on the medium, difficult, and boss levels. You can do old schoolwork, read, stare off into space, or whatever you want to do that involves silently practicing being nonviolent while seated in the back of a classroom. You can’t do