Mindfulness Breaks 213

Centers with a person who has not absorbed these lessons. Attempting this may cause more problems than it solves.

# Mindfulness Center Alcove

Due to space constraints, it may not be possible to find a suitable location for a Mindfulness Center Alcove. However, if using one is possible, here are the ideal parameters. A Mindfulness Center Alcove must be a place in a common area or back office that is constantly supervised by a person who has read this manual and can simultaneously monitor and completely ignore the student. This, in and of itself, is a rarity to have in a school. This cannot be in the principal’s office (which can be the most stimulating place in the school), and it can’t be in a hallway. If it just so happens that there is a convenient spot in the far reaches of the back end of a business office staffed by someone with their associate’s degree in Being Boring and Not Really Enjoying Children, this could be a perfect Mindfulness Center Alcove spot, if it can fulfill the parameters previously described.

# Mindfulness Room

A Mindfulness Room is not an in-school suspension room. This is simply a room with multiple Mindfulness Centers staffed by a person whose only job is to monitor and completely ignore students. The staff member must have read this manual and should acquire some kind of reading material, because there should be no interaction with the students who visit the room. Students should be able to come and go as they please. Logistics of how students will come and go from this room must be worked out by the Mindfulness Room monitor and teachers. It is usually unnecessary to have a Mindfulness Room, but it can be useful and effective for schools that need and can provide such a room.

# How to Use Mindfulness Centers Correctly

Now that you understand the importance of Mindfulness Breaks as an alternative to other chaos-inducing options, you understand what Mindfulness Centers are, you have created your Mindfulness Centers, you have your new Mindfulness Breaks paradigm, and you are ready to use Mindfulness Breaks in the context of the other parts of this book, you are ready to learn how to use Mindfulness Centers to create an excellent GGII