Student Job Procedures 125

day. If you notice that they have become more responsible during other parts of the day (by fulfilling their duties as a student and as a classmate by turning in work, being kind to others, etc.), you may ask them if they would like to become their own alarm clock once again. This will supercharge the Strategic Noticing of “I notice that you are being responsible.” In my classroom, students were able to earn back their own alarm clock job after several weeks, a month, several months, or not at all.

---

## Getting the Alarm Clock Job Back

If Human Alarm Clocks can get their job back, why can’t other students get their classroom jobs back after being fired?

We allow students to get these jobs back because, unlike other classroom jobs, Human Alarm Clocks jobs require students to only be responsible for themselves. Each time a student is fired and rehired, it teaches that student an important lesson about being responsible for yourself.

---

## Comfort Keeper

One student in your classroom should oversee all the duties that involve keeping the classroom a comfortable place to live and learn. Adjustments need to be made throughout a typical day to maintain an optimal classroom environment, and these adjustments cannot be made by the teacher. The class Comfort Keeper will be prompted by either the teacher or by various situations to close the classroom door when another class or the hallway gets too loud, to open or close a window to regulate the classroom temperature, or to keep the classroom dry when a storm moves in. The Comfort Keeper is in charge of turning lights on and off. You may even choose for the Comfort Keeper to be in charge of running any and all technology, air conditioning, fans, and heat. All of this is, of course, at your discretion.

## Attendance Keeper

As every school administrative assistant I ever worked with before I developed this procedure will tell you, I always had a serious problem with remembering to take attendance. A serious problem. To this day, I still feel badly about the levels of complete and total exasperation I created in the hearts of those hard-working secretaries.