Academic Control-Sharing Procedures 175

The possible exceptions to this rule of thumb are for preK and kindergarten. These students develop physiologically and neurologically so rapidly and their ability to complete tasks increases so quickly that the teacher should usually shorten the amount of time given to prepare for Afternoon Meeting once or twice as the year goes on.

## Team of the Day Responsibilities

When prompted, the TOD goes into high gear. Besides the responsibilities placed on all students at this time (see below), TOD tasks can include the following:

- Custodial duties: sweeping, vacuuming, taking out the trash, wiping down doorknobs, wiping down boards, etc.
- Closing windows and blinds
- Cleaning and organizing common and teacher areas: reading tables, reading chair, teacher desk

Who does what on any given day is not your concern; TODs should be left to decide who does what. Any attempt on your part to try to manage the process will have extensive negative effects on student ownership, student cooperation, and student enthusiasm. When left alone, students work out an infinite number of ways to divide up and complete labor. Some students just do the thing they like to do all year: kids who find sweeping to be satisfactory sweep every time their team is the TOD. Some kids love organizing the reading area. Some teams come up with complicated rotations of duties. Some teams have had one rotating person do all TOD responsibilities while the other members of the team gather that person’s personal items. After many years of using this procedure, I have been amazed by how creative and cooperative students are. It is extremely rare for students to refuse to pitch in, as long as you can keep yourself from interfering. Don’t intervene when a student isn’t contributing; you will find that the natural consequences of laziness and not being helpful will almost always change their behavior toward being more helpful.

Just as with TOD disagreements during Morning Meeting, you should avoid being tricked into owning the TOD’s problems. If there is any kind of disagreement that does not involve activities that may cause lasting harm, respond by saying:

“Oh, man. Can you solve this, or would you like me to solve it for you?”

If the person who asks this responds that the TOD will solve the problem, wish them good luck and walk away. If they say that you should solve it, hire another team to be TOD for the rest of the day—which includes running Afternoon Meeting.