Before They Arrive 33  

the 5 from the rest of the team or the class. Similarly, if you are a middle or high school teacher who works at a desk or board near the front of the class, then you probably want to place the most severe 5 close to the front of the room, but be sure not to put all of the 5s in the front row of the class.  

## Testing Your Configuration  
Once you have your teams arranged, it can be helpful to physically place students’ cards on the desks or tables where students will be sitting to test your configuration. Spend some time navigating the room as you might during different activities (e.g., instruction, individual work, group work). This lets you visualize where problems might occur. You might notice that you put a 4 or 5 from one team a little too close to a 4 or 5 from another. Maybe you separated two students into different teams because they have a history, but you put their teams right next to each other. This activity will help you foresee problems that you might miss if you just sketch out your plan or arrange cards on a table. If you decide to adjust your original configuration, be sure to test it out, too!  

## Positioning Yourself in the Classroom  
A Power Position (PP) is a place from which the teacher can see every student. There is a specific process to find these positions. Although you are likely to move around your classroom frequently, teachers often spend a lot of their time delivering instruction from certain optimal locations. For example, teachers of all age groups tend to address their class while at the board at the front of the room. Those who teach younger students may spend several hours a day at a reading table. Middle and high school teachers likely spend time at their desks or at a projector. Whatever grade you teach, think about the locations from which you deliver instruction at different times of the day. Write those places down, either as a list or on your classroom diagram.  

Now arrange students’ cards on the desks or tables where they will be sitting. Using your list or diagram, go to the places where you spend time giving instruction. Ask yourself the following questions to determine whether these spots are PPs:  

- Can you see students while they are seated at their desks or tables?  
- Can you see students at common areas and workstations?  
- Can you see students at the pencil sharpener and the trash can?  
- Can you see students at a lab table, sink, or other special utility space?