Student Job Procedures 117

1. The student(s) will be cooperative (in this case, practice being quiet to a prompt)  
   or  
2. The student(s) will learn a valuable lesson about being cooperative next time.

Say the following one time:

> We will begin practicing when everyone is seated, and everyone is silent.

While smiling, use interventions (see Chapter 9) or wait silently for as many seconds as feels comfortable for you if any students are not seated quietly. If the group or entire class is cooperative, move on to the Class and Small-Group PLO script below. If there is even one student not being cooperative once you decide that you would like to move on, say the following:

> Oh, man. Looks like you all need to practice an extra time.

You will then add to the amount of practice sessions the class chooses. Move on immediately to the Class and Small-Group PLO script.

## Class and Small-Group PLO Script

> Oh, man, [class nickname]. It looks like you all are struggling with being quiet when it is time to listen. No worries. I’m not mad at you. When you struggle with something, you need to practice doing it until you are an expert. So now I’m going to give you the chance to practice and become an expert. If you can become an expert today, that’s fine. Otherwise, you will be coming in to practice this every ______ for the rest of the year until you become an expert. That’s fine too.

> I am going to give you all a chance to talk to each other. You don’t have to, though. Then I will give the Prompt to Quiet [or the student hired for the Prompt to Quiet job will give the prompt]. If you all are completely quiet once you hear the prompt, that will count as a successful practice. This is team practice. In order for a practice attempt to be successful, everyone must be perfectly silent the second I am done giving the prompt. Tell me, how many times do you need to practice, five times or six times?

Have students vote. If they are cooperative and choose a number, accept it as the number of times they will have to practice. If they refuse, or chaos ensues when the question is asked, pick the greater number for them. If the class was not able to be quiet when prompted for the practice session, let them know that you will be adding an extra practice session.