64 The Classroom Behavior Manual

maximum effect by building strong relationships efficiently in short bursts of time. Here is how:

- Do home visits before school starts for 3 to 10 of your most difficult students. The moment you pet your student’s dog, you will immediately have a better relationship with your student’s parents. People often hold their first impression of others forever. A parent’s positive first impression of their child’s teacher as an actual human being in their home may become permanent. There are other environmental and biological issues at play here as well. Many parents, particularly parents of difficult students, had bad experiences in school, and schools make them horribly uncomfortable or even scared. To have your first interaction with a parent under these conditions is a recipe for disaster. It is far better to have your first interaction with parents in their home, where they are usually more comfortable.

The only goal of this home visit is to have a healthy interaction with the family. Do not bring any paperwork or materials of any kind. For many families, someone holding papers at their door will appear to be an unwanted bill collector. Besides, bringing materials makes you look like someone with an agenda. This will erode trust. The goal here is to build trust. No materials, no agenda.

Do not call in advance or arrange a meeting. It is not worth the time and effort necessary to coordinate a meeting and meeting time, especially when some families will go through great lengths to avoid interacting with you. You also don’t want to set too formal a tone for the casual interaction you’re trying to set up.

Do not enter your student’s home or request to do so unless invited. As we all can attest, homes are not always “visitor ready.” Be ready for a conversation on the porch or in the hallway.

Just have a conversation. Get to know the family. Pet a dog. Remark about a cat. Just be a person. Be safe. Take a friend with you, if that feels appropriate. If you feel uncomfortable in any situation, politely excuse yourself and leave immediately.

- Make five positive calls home each week for three weeks. A vast majority of these calls should be to the homes of your most difficult students. The goal is to build relationships with these students and their families. Invariably, parents of difficult children have dealt with negative calls from school for years, in the case of students above kindergarten or 1st grade. Positive calls home may help “flip the script.” Students from these families have learned to get attention not