Delayed Learning Opportunities 235

# The Creation and Implementation of DLOs

Unfortunately, Natural Learning Opportunities and Procedural Learning Opportunities will not present themselves every time students use a serious negative behavior. When they don’t, it is time to create a Delayed Learning Opportunity and deliver it when it is convenient for you. Remember, teachers own “later.” Later is when you are in the driver’s seat. Once you have avoided trying to implement a learning opportunity immediately, you have the freedom to choose when and how to administer it.

This section is split into two parts: how to create DLOs and exactly how to implement them with students. While you are learning how to create DLOs, you will probably develop some burning questions about exactly how to implement them; these questions will be answered during the implementation part.

## Two Lessons, Two DLOs

There are only two lessons that students need to learn about using positive behaviors:

1. To solve problems that are caused by their negative behaviors
2. To become proficient at using positive behaviors

The DLOs used to teach these lessons, accordingly, are called Problem-Solving DLOs and Practice DLOs.

Both lessons involve requiring students to strive to become people who do not cause problems for others and who solve the problems that they do cause. When DLOs are executed correctly, students will learn that these lessons are inevitable. Students know that their nonacademic lives will stop or be severely limited until they have solved all problems caused and achieved mastery of all the behaviors with which they have previously struggled. Reminder: This section covers how to create and give DLOs. The next section will show exactly how and when to implement the DLOs, keeping in mind every possible eventuality—including student refusal.

When students cause a problem for another person in the school (not themselves), they are required to solve that problem. Put another way, they have a responsibility to solve the problem.

Look at the word “responsibility” for a moment. The two words that are at the root of the word “responsibility” are “response” and “ability”: the true definition of the word “responsibility” is to have the ability to control one’s own response to stimuli.