Student Job Procedures 119

If multiple students say “No,” have them do a Small-Group PLO once the other students are gone. Allow all other students to go to whatever noninstructional activity they were missing. Feel free to use an ESPN Goodbye on their way out.

## When Classes and Small Groups Are Unsuccessful

When a class is not unanimously silent to the prompt during the PLO, use your Calm Signal. Then say the following:

> That’s an unsuccessful practice attempt. No worries. You can try again.
> 
> Feel free to talk.

Repeat each time students are unsuccessful. When students have a successful practice, follow the instructions for when they are successful, above. If the same students continually fail to practice successfully, allow them to fail until they have been successful at frustrating a significant number of the cooperative students. This allows the uncooperative students to learn that being uncooperative will no longer get them positive regard from a majority of their peers. It is highly likely that the number of students who are not cooperative will be lower than the number of students who were uncooperative when the practice session began.

Once the cooperative students are significantly frustrated with the uncooperative students, say the following:

> Oh, man. It looks like almost all of you are experts at being quiet when you are supposed to listen. Chris, Jaquata, Ashley, and Brandy, are you all experts?

If they answer “Yes,” give them an ESPN Goodbye as they adjourn to whatever noninstructional activity they have been missing. Dismiss groups of students in the same way. Use student nicknames if they have them. If students say that they are not experts, tell them to have a seat.

The students who remain have shown, through their actions or by their own admission, that they are not yet experts at being quiet to a prompt. If more than one student remains, use this procedure again. If only one student remains, have the student practice using an Individual PLO.

## Individual PLO

When you have given your prompt and only one student is still using an undesired behavior (e.g., talking), you can say the following:

> Oh, man. I will help you do some learning later. Don’t let it ruin your day.