98 The Classroom Behavior Manual

Goodbye to each student when they leave the classroom or the school. You can modify the suggested procedures below to fit your circumstances.

1. **Call for them to line up as you walk toward the door.**
2. **Stand at the door.** Situate yourself with one shoulder blade in and one shoulder blade out of the room. Make sure you can see all students from this position.
3. **When all car riders and walkers are waiting at the door to leave, give each student in line an ESPN Goodbye as they depart.** Make eye contact, smile, offer safe physical contact, and use their name (or nickname).
4. **While giving the ESPN Goodbye, take the time to offer words of encouragement, wish them luck at a game that night, and so on.** Take as much time as you can before they must leave. Not only does taking time with each student help build relationships, but it also creates space between each student. This reduces the likelihood that students will exhibit negative behaviors while leaving the building.

For bus riders who walk out to a parking lot where the buses are waiting:

1. **If possible, walk students to the buses, even if it is not required of you.** This has several positive effects for your students and your school:
   - It shows your students that you want to spend more time with them.
   - It shows that you care about their safety.
   - It creates a much safer school, hallway, and bus lot.
   - It encourages other teachers to do the same with their students.
2. **Put your students in bus order.** This means line them up in the order in which the buses either come or are stationed in the lot. As buses pull up or as you walk by each bus, give each student an ESPN Goodbye. You may not be able to chat much, but try to send each student off with an encouraging word.

If walkers and car riders are dismissed after bus riders, you can reverse the order in which you do things. Line up bussers to receive the ESPN Goodbye as they leave your room, and then walk out the walkers and car riders.

The ESPN Goodbye procedure should be used for all students, preK–12. For many teachers, it may feel awkward using the procedure with older students. Middle and high school students will invariably balk at being walked to buses or a car lot by a teacher. Their opinions on the matter are irrelevant; students at this age will act like their teachers are crazy and/or stupid and/or uncool no matter what their teachers do. How they act is therefore not an indication of whether they like what their