Student Job Procedures 121

## When Individuals Are Successful

Do not spend a lot of time and energy praising successful practice attempts. Simply say the following:

> That’s one successful practice. ___ more to go. Feel free to talk.

Repeat this after every successful practice. The number of successful practice sessions needed to reach the goal needs to be cumulative. It should not be that number of successful practices in a row. Once the student has completed the number of practices chosen (or assigned), say the following:

> Are you an expert at being quiet when it’s time to listen?

If the student says “No,” have him or her take a seat and start the entire procedure over, this time giving two choices for the number of practices sessions that are higher than the original choices.

## When Individuals Are Unsuccessful

When a student is unsuccessful at being silent to the prompt, use your Calm Signal. Then say the following:

> That’s an unsuccessful practice attempt. No worries. You can try again. Feel free to talk.

Repeat each time the student is unsuccessful. When a student has a successful practice, follow the instructions for when they are successful, above.

## Human Alarm Clocks

In most preK–12th grade classrooms, students may be required to leave at scheduled times for a multitude of reasons: Title I Reading, speech, gifted, special intervention, occupational therapy, physical therapy, and going to the nurse for daily medication or treatment. Remembering when to send students to the many corners of the school universe at various times per day is difficult, if not impossible. Besides the extra, significant, and unnecessary mental strain of remembering multiple schedules every day, there are three other significant problems with keeping tabs on these schedules and dismissing students every day:

- It gives students the false impression that the maintenance of their lives, health, and education is the job of the adults around them. (It isn’t.)
- It forces the teacher into telling students to do things, which takes away a feeling of control from students.