Academic Control-Sharing Procedures 173

students are at the carpet. Alternatively, you could sit with a team and be Locked-In with them. This can be particularly useful in order to create proximity with a team who is having trouble being ready.

Position yourself by putting a chair in a Power Position (see Chapter 3), and assume an assertive, seated stance while reading. This tells students that you are in charge; nothing they can do will change that. Knowing who the alpha is (and not having to figure it out for themselves) is calming for students.

**Combine reading with Preventive Movement.** Read your book for a minute or two. Make sure you have a drink, snack, or both. Again, this alpha move shows that you are in charge without telling your students so. Then, without taking your eyes off your book, do a Behavioral Sweep. Slowly walk around the room while reading. Just like in Real-World Workshop, use Gentle Guidance Interventions only for behaviors that do not have to do with voice level. Again, only use your PLOs for talking.

## Afternoon Meeting

All students, preK-12, have an end to their day, and all students, preK-12, are human. In order for humans to feel an optimal sense of satisfaction with an experience, they require closure. Both students and teachers can obtain this sense of closure through the Afternoon Meeting procedure. Part of this closure literally involves checking off the class’s to-do list. The Morning Meeting allows students to say to each other, “This is what we will achieve. This is the reason why we are here today.” The Afternoon Meeting allows them to say, “This is what we achieved today.”

In addition to creating a sense of purpose and closure daily, the Afternoon Meeting procedure gives students a feeling of control by allowing them to run this part of the day. As a teacher, you will do very little and exert minimal energy during a time when most teachers have very little energy left. Finally, after achieving closure to the academic day, students will have the opportunity to end each day with a fun, nonacademic game or activity to end on a good note.

The procedure for Afternoon Meeting detailed below is generally for elementary students who are in a self-contained room all day or intermediate students who switch classes midday. Secondary teachers should read this procedure with an eye toward picking and choosing small parts of the procedure for the end of each class period, or only for their last class period of the day. Of special importance is that all secondary class periods have some kind of closure to the lesson and connection to what will be learned the next school day, and that the last period of the day has that element plus at least some token closure statement for the day and some kind