Mindfulness Breaks 205

leads to dropping out, which leads to mass incarceration. Specifically, sending students to the principal’s office creates this and other types of dysfunction for the following reasons:

- It takes away the teacher’s power and implies that the teacher should not be seen as an authority figure.
- It can diminish the amount of respect that parents have for the teacher as an authority figure.
- It can create tension between the principal and teacher if the parties disagree on how disciplinary situations are handled in the office or in the classroom.
- It is usually prefaced with warnings and threats, which condition students to think that they will always be warned or threatened before any action is taken.
- It doesn’t take into account that the principal is often not immediately available to address the problem.
- It makes the school office a chaotic place to work.
- It creates a threatening situation that activates the student’s brain stem.
- It creates (or continues) an unwinnable power struggle.
- It makes the student feel rejected.
- It makes the student feel that they are not as good as the other students.
- It implies that the teacher feels that the student cannot handle the challenges of life.
- It is punitive.
- It takes an undue amount of control from the student.
- It allows the student to avoid work.
- It creates logistical problems regarding the student going to or being “picked up” by the principal.
- It rewards students who use negative behaviors to get what they want, as some combination of attention, control, and avoidance is achieved every time a student is sent to the office.
- It creates a “negative ripple effect”: other students who want some combination of attention, control, and avoidance will see that one student has gotten these things, so they will use negative behaviors to get these things for themselves.