66 The Classroom Behavior Manual

I understand what I had heard about him. He’s just an amazing athlete. I wanted to let you know that I really appreciate the way he carries himself, and I know you have a lot to do with that. I know that he’s not a big fan of school, but I want to work with you guys on getting him what he needs in bite-sized pieces so he can avoid getting frustrated, and so we can get him to do well enough to stay eligible for sports. He has such athletic and leadership gifts that he could become an amazingly successful person, and I want to help with that.

Perhaps just for fun, or perhaps because I am a bit mischievous at heart, I always like to pause immediately after saying who I am and that I am calling about their child. Very often, I will get some form of “OK, what did he do now?” or worse. Then I can tell them that I am calling for a completely positive reason. I have found that this sometimes breaks a kind of spell. It seems to allow the parent to reassess their child and think that perhaps things might be different this year, that perhaps their child isn’t incorrigible, that perhaps there is hope.

If a student, particularly an extremely difficult student, does something positive, don’t wait to call home. You or another teacher or an administrator may have to deliver some bad news about their child at some point, so try to have the “good call” before you or someone else is forced to have the bad one.

After the first three weeks, make a point to make a positive call to a student’s home every week. Don’t forget: schedule time to make the call and put it on the calendar. If a student does something you want to call home about, do so as soon as it is convenient and ignore your scheduled time, but make sure you take the time to make that call every week.

- Attend two sporting events per season. Showing up at sporting events so that students know that you care is an old idea. It isn’t necessary to show up to every game; you can make efficient use of your time by going to two sporting events per season during the year: two in spring, two in winter, and two in fall. Take summer off.

If you are lucky enough that multiple students are on the same team (this is more common with older students), this becomes very efficient. There might be cheerleaders involved as well. Bring as many of your own friends and family as possible. Be loud and conspicuous. Reinforce positive behaviors that you see from your students by loudly affirming them. Grit, determination, and toughness can be enthusiastically reinforced. Have your friends and family do the same. Tell the cheering section the name(s) of students that you are there to see, and have them use their names when cheering. If your student has a nickname