52 The Classroom Behavior Manual

- 30 minutes: 20 Strategic Noticings
- 20 minutes: 14 Strategic Noticings
- 10 minutes: 7 Strategic Noticings
- 5 minutes: 4 Strategic Noticings
- One 50-minute period (high or middle school): 34 Strategic Noticings

These numbers denote the minimum amount of Strategic Noticing necessary. Having someone holding you accountable will allow you to better remember to keep up your frequency in order to prevent negative behaviors. Only by thoughtfully attending to Strategic Noticing can you be successful in this area.

**Hints for Optimal Strategic Noticing**

Bombard your students with Strategic Noticing in the first five minutes of the day and the first five minutes after lunch or recess. There are two reasons for this. First, it is easier to remember to use the technique immediately after a break from students and for just five minutes, especially when you are just starting the practice. Second, overwhelming students with Strategic Noticing when they enter the classroom for the first time in the morning and in the afternoon reminds them about what kind of behaviors (positive ones) get attention in your classroom. This is especially important for students who get attention for negative behaviors at home or during lunch or recess. Noticing in this way sets the tone of a classroom.

Middle and high school teachers can concentrate on getting 20 Strategic Noticings done in the first 10 minutes of every class period, for all of the reasons above. This is especially important for students coming from classes that have teachers at the helm who have not had Behavioral Leadership Classroom training or have not read this book. This is not to say that you should stop noticing after doing 20 Strategic Noticings in the first 10 minutes. Note that in a 50-minute period, you will still have to notice 14 more times for minimally sufficient frequency.

It is helpful to use the Strategic Noticing Strategy in age-appropriate ways. For all age groups, preK-12, public group noticing (e.g., “I noticed that you all are working very hard”) is always effective.

As students get older, starting around 5th grade, you may want to start experimenting with private noticings. This kind of Strategic Noticing involves using a soft voice or whisper, or noticing when no other students are present. However, you should consider the needs or your particular students. Many tough, even difficult high school students never get tired of being publicly noticed for their positive behaviors. Just experiment. Keep in mind that many students will remark on how odd it