142 The Classroom Behavior Manual

(as long as it can be placed securely) when they’ve finished. Alternatively, you could hang the board on designated hooks—whatever works best in your classroom.

**Figure 8.1**  
*Sample Schedule Incorporating Pattern and Rule*  

Fun Things to Do Today  
# 4 Morning Meeting  
^ 6 Learn about adding doubles  
^ 8 Learn about writing a personal narrative  
^ 10 Lunch  
# 12 Recess  
^ 14 Read The Sisters Grimm  
^ 16 Learn about map grids  
^ 18 Readers’ Workshop  
# 20 Afternoon Meeting  
Pattern:  
Rule:  

The TOD has their work cut out for them every morning because they must get the schedule up on the board and get their Quick Start Activity completed. Do not require students to do one before the other, and do not require students to participate in putting up the schedule. The schedule does not need to be completed, though when you remove all potential power struggles from this process, students will tend to want to do it. If the schedule is not completed, add this task as a Later and have the TOD representative verbally announce the schedule to the class.

For intermediate students who change classes once during the day, a bit of communication between morning and afternoon teachers may be necessary to find out what is happening in the afternoon so that it can be added to the schedule, or two different schedules can be made for morning and afternoon. For middle and high school students, you may choose to not do a schedule at all, but simply have students write what is for lunch, a news headline, or important announcements. Some teachers don’t ask students to write anything. Having students verbally making announcements and running the room in general during a nonacademic homeroom is essential in middle and high schools. It communicates to students not only that it is their class but also that it is their school. You might even encourage middle and high school students to add to these announcements in any appropriate ways that they would like: