Before They Arrive 27

As the day wore on, the challenges continued to accumulate. Three boys whom I had seated next to one another in orderly rows acted anything but orderly the entire day. One student refused to do any work. He appeared to be taking 1st grade as an elective. One literally tried to strangle his friend during dismissal. The day was an utter disaster. As we reached its merciful conclusion, I developed the sinking feeling that all of my preparation was a waste of time. As my students were finally getting on the bus, all I could think was “I really thought I was prepared. Now what?!”  

## It’s Not About Classroom Management  

As it turns out, I had successfully set up my room for proper classroom management, at least as well as I could as an inexperienced teacher: the desks were in rows, and things were neat, orderly, and generally appealing. I had processes, procedures, and tools in place for the classroom’s academic and administrative needs. I had even meticulously planned for how to avoid student traffic jams, and I had done sufficient planning to avoid general confusion in the classroom.  

These aspects of running the classroom are so important, but they are not the focus of this book. There are already two fantastic books written on this subject: *The First Days of School* by Harry K. Wong and *The Classroom Management Book* by Harry K. Wong and Rosemary T. Wong.  

While this book will help with classroom management, it is about behavioral leadership. This chapter will not show you how to manage your classroom because the books above already have. Instead, this chapter will show you how to set up your room to be optimally effective for changing and managing students’ behavior.  

Here’s what you will learn:  

- How to place students on teams according to their academic levels and behavioral issues for optimal behavioral leadership  
- How to position the students and yourself within the classroom so that you can properly monitor students and effectively use Gentle Guidance Interventions  
- How to explain your methods to parents and administrators  

This chapter is relatively short. There are no instructions on how to set up systems, charts, or forms, because this manual does not call for any of these instruments. Rather, it shows you how to set the stage for an optimal environment in which you can elicit positive behaviors from your students using the absolute minimum amount of time and energy. Notice the wording: this chapter only sets the stage for that optimal environment. Subsequent chapters will teach you how to create and maintain it.