Academic Control-Sharing Procedures 169

Each level is more enjoyable for the students than the one that comes after it. The trouble is that the most enjoyable voice levels are the most difficult to maintain: soft talking involves lots of thoughtful awareness. Silent involves almost no awareness.

When four or more students speak above the voted-upon voice level, that is the class’s way of telling you, “We cannot yet handle this voice level; we need an easier one.” When this happens, you should oblige. If they voted for soft talking Workshop, and four or more students talk above that level, say the following:

> Oh, man. Looks like you guys have chosen [start whispering and put two fingers on your throat] whispering Workshop.

Again, this script can be more casual with secondary students, and if you have a volunteer Retuner, this is even more the case. If you are the Retuner, however, do not omit your Calm Signal, no matter how casual your language becomes.

The expectation is that everyone is now in whispering Workshop. Whispering Workshop is quieter and easier to monitor anyway! Hooray for you! Once in whispering Workshop, when four or more students talk above whispering, say, while still whispering:

> Oh, man. Looks like you all have chosen silent Workshop.

The expectation is that everyone is now in silent Workshop. Silence! Yes! You thought you would have to wait until the end of the day, and now you get it early. Plus, silence is incredibly easy to manage!

Do you see how you have flipped the script? Do you see how, without this procedure, you have to hope and pray that students don’t get too loud, but with this procedure, you will hope that they do get too loud?

Once in silent Workshop, when four or more students talk or whisper say, while still whispering:

> Oh, man. Looks like you are not ready to do Workshop at all. Could everyone please put their heads down and listen to our silence while I get some work done? Thanks.

Students should then have their heads down for as long as Real-World Workshop was supposed to last. Use this Class Head Down PLO when necessary. If you have three minutes left, their heads will be down for that amount of time. The same is true if you have 45 minutes left.

In all my years of teaching, I only had to “shut it down” three times. Two of those times, there were less than 10 minutes left. That makes sense—it should take a long time for four or more students to fail over and over. Because of this, you will usually only have a few minutes for “shut down time.” One time, I did have to shut it down