108 The Classroom Behavior Manual

## Training Procedure

After you model how to do an individual job for all of your students, teach the first student who is hired to do that job how to do it once. After that, you are off the hook for teaching how to do the job. Previous job holders can train new employees, so you only teach one student one time for each job. Training children more than once is inefficient, and it tricks students into thinking doing a job well is someone else’s problem. Also, students learn faster and more effectively through failure (in this case, being fired).

Once you hire a student for any job, do not help, remind, or prompt them in any way. If they do their job perfectly, they get to keep their job for the rest of the year. If they fail to do their job perfectly, they are fired, and they get to hire the next person to take the job. Getting fired is effective failure, especially when done in tandem with a Calm Signal (see Chapter 4 for details).

## Firing Procedures

When a student fails at remembering to do their job, or they don’t do their job properly, fire them. No warnings, no reteaching, no threats. They are simply fired, but in a specific way. First, you need to use your Calm Signal. Here is a simple script:

Oh, man. You’re fired. You can hire someone to do the job, or I can. Your choice.

Students can choose any student who has never held that job. They can pick their best friend, and they can opt to not pick their enemies. This allows students to learn the lesson that if you are nice, it’s easier to get a job. Students can also decline having a job. Again, we don’t live in a world where forced labor is legal, so there is no need to prepare our students for this type of world by making kids do jobs.

It is possible that a student could do a job perfectly and have that job all year. This would be incredibly rare, but it should be allowed to happen. That child is doing a service to the rest of the class by modeling an incredible amount of responsibility. Other students will be able to see that this level of responsibility is possible and that it gets people good things in the form of employment and status.

Having looked at the guidelines around initiating and terminating student jobs, let’s examine jobs in which students can contribute to the management of their own classroom.