226 The Classroom Behavior Manual

# Safe and Uncomfortable: Two Parts to the DLO

Calming tactics such as the repeated use of a Calm Signal and delaying scripts help students feel safe: unthreatened, respected, and loved. Through every moment of the DLO process, you will make it clear that the student’s negative behaviors, no matter how severe, have not triggered anger from you and that these behaviors have not caused you to dislike the student. But while the student will feel as safe as is possible given the situation and the student’s own arousal level, it is not your goal to make them comfortable. On the contrary—learning something new involves at least a minimal level of discomfort.

There are two parts to using DLOs. The first involves how to effectively let a student know that there will be a DLO coming in the future. The second section is about how to create and deliver an appropriate DLO. You will see that there is specific instruction about exactly how to make sure your students feel appropriately uncomfortable within the context of a safe, loving environment.

## Getting to Later

Here is a logistical truth: Students own now; teachers own later.

Savvy students who are seeking attention, control, and/or work avoidance know that, if they are brave enough, they can always achieve one or more of these goals if the teacher attempts to deal with their behaviors in the present. It’s inherently true: even if the teacher understands that a learning opportunity needs to be the terminal destination of serious negative behaviors, the student is guaranteed to get some combination of attention, control, and/or work avoidance if the teacher does not know how to delay the learning opportunity.

If you give a student a learning opportunity immediately, you will draw your attention, and the attention of other students, to the student using the negative behavior; you will be allowing the student to control your actions, and perhaps emotions; and you will be allowing the student to avoid work, since they cannot participate in a learning opportunity and do work at the same time.

The fact is that trying to give a student a learning opportunity in the moment only makes the serious negative behavior more likely in the future. Just by responding immediately, you reinforce the negative behavior.

Here is an emotional truth: When you don’t know what to do, it’s a good idea not to do it.