Before You Begin 19

build those relationships. I decided to create these procedures myself and developed a way to establish them as routines within the first three weeks of the school year. After those three weeks, I never had to think about them again, because the students themselves maintained them.

The procedures and established routines allowed me to create a classroom where my students loved to be. They knew that no one was going to hurt them. They felt like their classroom was their turf. They knew that we were all on the same team, that we were family.

To be clear, I built relationships by using procedures—not just by “being nice.” Being nice to difficult students, by itself, is nearly worthless. Difficult kids will act out more when you go out of your way to be nice. Challenging students usually have trust and self-esteem issues, and they will test you by exhibiting negative behaviors to see if you truly like them and if you are able to place limits on them—something that they desperately need and want.

I have found that it is impossible to build relationships with 25 to 35 students in a classroom just by “winging it.” That is, it’s impossible to build relationships just by being nice enough in any given situation that you don’t damage relationships. My difficult students had experienced too much success getting what they wanted through argument, aggression, and manipulation for me to be able to build a positive relationship while tolerating these negative behaviors.

That’s why this manual describes how to build relationships through procedures that train students to exhibit positive behaviors. Establishing these procedures as routines creates an environment where all students feel the safety and ownership necessary for them to be prosocial members of their classroom who are ready to learn.

This manual also explicitly details strategies for building relationships that can be used under specific circumstances. For example, particularly difficult students in functional classrooms may find themselves in the middle of an emotionally positive Bizarro Lecture when they do something particularly wonderful. Effective teachers can use Strategic Noticing to reinforce positive behaviors by noticing them (see Chapter 4), as well as Extreme Respect strategies to model the exemplary behaviors that are expected in a functional classroom.

Used cumulatively, these Relationship-Building Procedures and Strategies are half of the necessary tools for creating a safe, loving, calm, and nurturing environment.