88 The Classroom Behavior Manual

# Sample Class Applause: Elementary

One of my 3rd grade classes named themselves the “Bobcats.” For their Class Applause, they chose to pose their hands like claws and yell, “Bobcats! Bobcats! Bobcats!” Each time they yelled the team name, they jabbed their “claws” into the air. As time went on, their applause evolved to extend their claws toward the person being “Bobcatted.”

# Sample Class Applause: Secondary

Secondary students tend to go in one of two directions: totally ridiculous as a means of protesting how utterly stupid this ritual is, or very boring as a means of protesting how utterly stupid this ritual is. It doesn’t matter how they feel or what they choose; it just matters that they make a choice so that they own the ritual. I have seen classes choose to make crazy monkey noises (ridiculous), and I have seen classes choose traditional applause (boring). Either way, they ended up feeling more ownership of the room.

# Class Handshake

This procedure works much like Class Applause in terms of when and how the class decides on a method. As with Class Applause, you can permit students to run the procedure with appropriate guidance.

## The Procedure

1. **Introduce the concept.** Tell students that today they will have the chance to come up with a Class Handshake.
2. **Explain these guidelines (once):**
   - For elementary students, the Class Handshake must take three seconds or less. For middle and high school students who change classes multiple times per day, it must take one second or less.
   - Everyone must be physically able to do the Class Handshake, or it should include modifications for students with physical challenges. This encourages students to be mindful and inclusive.
   - The Class Handshake must be appropriate for school.