Relationship-Building Strategies 59

teaching.) Our staff had organized a potluck for lunch. Someone had brought in some absolutely amazing chicken wings, and by the end of our lunchtime, there were still perhaps 60 wings left. I stopped a fellow teacher from throwing them in the garbage, which would have been a crime against humanity. I took the wings to my classroom, along with plates and napkins. When my 5th grade students came back from recess, I offered them a chicken wing snack. I still remember the silence and stunned looks on every one of the students’ faces. “What did we do?” Jacquata asked, wondering what this was a reward for. I just smiled (this was rare) and said that they didn’t do anything and that I got these wings, that they were delicious, and that I just thought that they might want some wings.

My students, still stunned, suspiciously and slowly formed a line, picked up some wings, napkins, and plates, and sat down to eat their wings in a mild state of shock. Most of the students even said, “Thank you.” This was perhaps the first time those words had been spoken in that classroom by them or by me!

When you can, you should do things for your students. Never do them as a reward. Never do them with conditions. Just do them because you like to. The simpler and easier to do, the better, as you have so little time. Here are some things you can do to go out of your way for your students, with parental consent, if necessary:

- Get a giant bag of candy and give the candy to your students.
- Buy pizza for your students for lunch.
- Set up a waffle bar for your homeroom.
- Set up an ice cream bar for your last period class.
- Hold class outside.
- Host video game parties at lunchtime.
- Take students down the street to an ice cream shop and buy them ice cream.

Again, none of these things should be done as a reward, and they should be done for everyone, without conditions. Going out of your way for your students builds relationships; “reward parties” only for those who are cooperative with teachers can destroy them.

The only exception to withholding these events from students is when not taking part in them is part of a logical DLO. A student who has been acting dangerously should not go to an ice cream shop. A student who has been running out of the room during instruction should not be allowed to attend class outside with everyone else. When cases like this occur, notify the students and make alternative plans. However, you should never tell a student that they “need to behave” if they want to have the reward party/fun thing. For more on logical DLOs, see Chapter 11.