Relationship-Building Strategies 51

percent should go toward Gentle Guidance Interventions and only 10 percent to the use of Delayed and Procedural Learning Opportunities (described in the latter section of this book).

While implementing Strategic Noticing is incredibly simple, remembering to do it often enough is more challenging. However, prioritizing this technique will improve your life more than any other change that you could possibly make to your teaching.

All teachers should use Strategic Noticing every 90 seconds, all day long. Another way to put it: for every 30 minutes you are with students, you need to notice 20 times.

A common reaction—one that you are probably having right now—is that Strategic Noticing will take too much time. It won’t. Strategic Noticing takes no more than three seconds. Over the course of any half-hour period, 20 instances of Strategic Noticing will take no more than 60 seconds. Remember that noticing positive behaviors frequently will prevent a vast majority of negative behaviors that take days, sometimes weeks or even months, away from your instructional time every year.

Strategic Noticing is a preventive strategy. Putting time and energy toward prevention is more effective than putting energy toward responsive action. Keep in mind that the procedures already outlined also act as preventive measures. The cumulative effect of implementing Relationship-Building and Control-Sharing Procedures is that you will unleash a tidal wave of negative behavior prevention every single day without even thinking about it!

## Accountability: How to Make Sure You Notice Every 90 Seconds

Again, this is the hard part. Nothing prompts you to do Strategic Noticing; you need to do it even when all is well. Therefore, you may need some help from someone else to make sure your Strategic Noticing frequency is high enough for optimal negative behavior prevention.

Ideally, your school will hire a Behavioral Leadership Classroom coach to help you with this and the use of every other procedure and strategy in this book. If not, you can simply ask another person to tally the number of times you use Strategic Noticing. That person does not need to have any training other than you telling them to tally how many times you say “I noticed that you ______” without following it up with praise. Of course, schools are busy places, so anyone helping won’t have a lot of time. But if they can spare five minutes, that can be enough to spot-check you to make sure you are noticing enough. Here are your frequency goals for optimal prevention, depending upon the amount of time being observed: