Relationship-Building Procedures 83

The Nickname Ceremony will become a class ritual. As such, it must be something strange, unusual, and, above all, fun. You should make the ceremony an odd, theatrical experience in which you look at least a little silly. For example, it should include some type of faux emotion (e.g., yelling, jumping around with excitement) as well as some special costume or prop. This inspires students to look forward to the ceremony. Looking silly actually helps teachers appear more dominant, because students respect people who “put themselves out there.” Being strong enough to purposely let yourself look foolish will help elevate you to PLA status.

Whatever process you adopt, make sure that you use the same one every time. This allows the ceremony to become a ritual, a repeated rite of passage that adds predictability and consistency to the lives of students who may not have either at home.

How my Nickname Ceremony works:

1. Before the Afternoon Meeting, I make sure the nickname recipient not only approves the nickname but also knows the ceremony is happening. I tell the student that when I announce the nickname, the student should ask, “Why?”
2. At the end of the Afternoon Meeting, I have the person who led the meeting—or the Comfort Keeper—turn off the lights (see Chapter 6). I ask the team of the day to pull down the blinds or close the curtains, making sure that enough light comes from the hallway or through the window that everyone can see.
3. I pull out my “Boogada, Boogada” hat (a straw hat with flowers) and staff (a piece of an old bulletin board), and stand before the students, who are seated on the carpet. I silently stare them down for a few seconds, then say, “[Student’s first and last name], come forward.”
4. When the student stands, I crouch down and stare at the student for a moment. Then, I slam the staff into the ground near the student’s feet and loudly proclaim these words: “Boogada, boogada, boogada!”
5. I pause for effect, then declare, “Ladies and gentlemen, I present to you [student’s first and last name]. Boogada, boogada, boogada!” I punctuate each “boogada” by knocking the end of the staff on the ground.
6. I continue: “[Student’s first name], from now on, your [the class name] nickname shall be . . . [student’s new nickname]!” The nicknamed student asks, “Why?” Then, I reach into my pocket, pull out confetti (shredded paper), and throw it toward the top of the student’s head. I demand, “WHY NOT?!”
7. I allow laughter to subside, then conclude: “Ladies and gentlemen, I now present to you . . . [student’s nickname]!”