Delayed Learning Opportunities 257

administrators in the unenviable position of reinforcing those negative behaviors by reacting to them, systematically, giving students attention, control, and avoidance. Instead of reacting to negative behaviors by reinforcing them, administrators can flip the script and use consistent Strategic Noticing to systematically prevent negative behaviors.

Therefore, the most important job of an administrator is to move throughout the school and use Strategic Noticing 600 times per day to recondition the school in this regard. Six hundred instances of Strategic Noticing may sound like a lot, but it is not. Most administrators, especially ones that work with at-risk populations, react to negative behaviors with warnings, lectures, and threats far more than 600 times a day. Therefore, the choice is whether the administrator is going to systematically prevent negative behaviors or react to and thereby reinforce negative behaviors.

## Supporting Teachers When Parents Complain

Using the contents of this manual will put teachers in a good position for dealing with parents for obvious reasons. These are best practices that don’t involve anger or punishment. Still, there will always be parents who complain about teacher practices, even when they are best practices. The most common complaints will be from parents who do not understand DLOs and view them as punitive. Even after an initial parent communication letter and corresponding conversations about the contents of this book (see Chapter 8), they may not fully understand the instructional and nonpunitive nature of DLOs. Often, parents “fill in the blanks” of their non-understanding with the memories of their own school experiences, which probably involved punitive measures. If a parent has a complaint and is unsatisfied with a teacher’s answer, administrators should support the use of DLOs, using the same techniques as the teacher.

## Coordinating DLOs

Administrators can help teachers coordinate with colleagues regarding DLOs. Batching DLOs or scheduling times and locations for DLO sessions can be a helpful and very much appreciated service that administrators can manage.

## Acting as a DLO Location Substitute

Similarly, teachers should staff DLO locations if possible, so that they have an opportunity to build relationships with students and families and demonstrate that they are the ultimate authority figures in the lives of these students at school. If the