118 The Classroom Behavior Manual

The preceding example includes an appropriate choice of times for 3rd grade or above. For preK and kindergarten, one or two practices is appropriate. For 1st and 2nd grade, three or four practices is best.

Now begin the practice session. Say the following:

> I may try to trick you by saying my prompt very quickly or very quietly.
> 
> OK, you all can talk now if you want.

You can wait however long you want—usually between 5 and 30 seconds—before you say the prompt. Start with a louder, slower prompt, and make the prompt quieter and faster as you go on. If you are using a hired student prompter, you can coach them on this as well.

Mentally prepare yourself. If you are used to hoping and praying that students are cooperative, shift your paradigm. Remember that uncooperative students, by definition, need to learn that being cooperative can get them what they want: in their respective pasts, being uncooperative has been more effective in this endeavor. Be happy that you are about to successfully teach uncooperative students that being uncooperative will not get them what they want. They will not be able to create chaos, they will not be able to feel the freedom of doing whatever they want without consequences, they will not be able to control the emotions of an adult, and they will not get approval from their peers. In short, start hoping that students are uncooperative so that they can learn to be cooperative.

It can be helpful to be involved with another activity when monitoring practicing the Prompt for Quiet procedure. Checking your phone, grading papers, or working on your computer shows students that this session may be a challenge for them, but it is not a challenge for you.

## When Classes and Small Groups Are Successful

Do not spend a lot of time and energy praising successful practice attempts. Simply say the following:

> That’s one successful practice. ___ more to go. Feel free to talk.

Repeat this after every successful practice. The number of successful practice sessions needed to reach the goal needs to be cumulative. It should not be that number of successful practices in a row. Once the class has completed their practices, say the following:

> Are you all experts at being quiet when it’s time to listen?

If anyone says “No,” have them stay in their seat. Have them go through an Individual PLO for the Prompt for Quiet procedure once the other students have gone.