258 The Classroom Behavior Manual

logistics of staffing prevents teachers from being able to do so, however, administrators can help by taking on this responsibility.

## Delivering Students

As a part of a plan for DLO implementation, administrators can participate by delivering students to a DLO location. This should be done in a friendly way. Remember, DLOs are not punishment; the administrator is just escorting the student to a lesson. The administrator does not need to know anything about the nature of the DLO or the DLO-worthy behavior, nor should they discuss it with the student. The administrator should give a friendly ESPN Greeting and engage in friendly conversation, and an Argument Shield should be used to deal with any student’s attempts at argument. The administrator is not in charge of this situation; they are merely acting as a delivery service for the educator receiving the student.

## Attending DLO Meetings and *The Classroom Behavior Manual* Book Club Meetings

Administrators should be firmly aligned with staff by attending DLO meetings, but they do not need to lead the meetings. In fact, it is often most helpful for them not to. Having another staff member in charge allows for a leader to arise naturally from the staff. This also makes it less likely that the parties involved—educators, students, and parents—will feel that an administrator is “in charge of discipline” when they should not be.

## Doing Their Own DLOs

When DLO-worthy behaviors happen away from teachers and in front of an administrator (typically in a common area), the administrator is now the primary authority figure. It is their responsibility to delay and then give the DLO.

## What If Students Seem to Be Enjoying Themselves?

A common sign that you are using the DLO process correctly is that, due to the lack of anger, lectures, and threats, students may remark that they enjoy the solving of a problem or the practicing of a behavior. This is a wonderful outcome! Educators who are used to using anger and punishments may feel uncomfortable about this. They may have, deep in their bones, a feeling—not even a thought, but a feeling—that