Academic Control-Sharing Procedures 149

they would rather do. Real-World Workshop trains students to work hard and teaches them, through experience, the essential life truth that life improves when you work hard.

# How to Use the Real-World Workshop Procedure

In order to teach every detail of this procedure, we will examine the most complicated version first. Simpler differentiated versions of the procedure will follow, though none of the versions is truly complicated. Approximately 95 percent of the necessary information can be found in the first descriptions, as all versions are nearly identical. Once the basics of the procedure are detailed, and differentiations are given for preK, kindergarten, and intermediate, middle, and high school, we will look at Procedural Learning Opportunities for setting and enforcing limits regarding voice level with individuals, small groups, and whole groups.

The first version is designed for a 3rd grade self-contained classroom—that is, a classroom that teaches all non-enrichment subjects (typically everything but physical education, art, music, and technology). Kindergarten through 2nd grade Real-World Workshop is exactly the same in procedure and process, though the preK and kindergarten procedures involve some very simple differentiations, mostly to accommodate for nonreaders. And 4th–12th grade Real-World Workshop is significantly simpler than preK–3rd.

## Relax and Trust the Procedure

The procedure itself will teach students all the necessary lessons about hard work. Simply follow these directions to put the procedures in place. Fight the urge to nag students about working hard. Such actions will have the opposite of the intended effect. Instead, let the natural consequences built into the procedure work their magic. The Real-World Workshop’s incorporation of “Nows,” “Laters,” and “Mystery Laters” is the basis for the procedure that teaches these lessons about hard work.

## Nows

Nows are activities that correspond to direct instruction. Just as with traditional work time, the teacher teaches to a standard, and then students practice that standard using a Now activity. Nows are generally put on the Nows and Laters Board one at a time, immediately after the corresponding standard has been introduced. Once students are done with the Nows, they can move on to the Laters. When more standards from different subjects are introduced, more Nows are written on the Nows and Laters Board. If students fail to complete a Now before the class moves on to the next