40 The Classroom Behavior Manual

“The Black Cat”), I was considered a smart, extremely capable student, and the report given to Mrs. Johnson by my 2nd grade teacher was glowing. When academic expectations increased dramatically in 3rd grade, however, I fell behind, and my anxiety about my failures—compounded by Mrs. Johnson’s reactions to those failures—overwhelmed me. The teacher calling me “a real disappointment” in front of all my classmates did not help.

Even during brief moments of success, Mrs. Johnson was there to snuff out any positive feelings that flickered within me about my class, my teacher, and myself. Once, by the sheer accident of happening to know my 7s times tables because they corresponded with the scoring of touchdowns and extra points in football, I had, for the very first time, done well on a dreaded multiplication quiz. Having earned a perfect score instead of my usual F, I wanted to show my accomplishment to my family.

“Can I take this home and show my mom?” I asked Mrs. Johnson, holding out my perfect quiz. To this day, I remember her exact words. I remember where I was standing and what she was wearing.

“Since when are you so interested in math?!” She snatched the quiz out of my hand and ripped it up in front of me, throwing the scraps of quiz on the ground. She then told me to pick the pieces up and throw them away. In full view of my entire class, I cried quietly, on my knees, as I did as I was told.

* * * * * * * * * * * *

I hated Mrs. Johnson for a long time. She was the reason I became a teacher: I didn’t want students to have to go through what I went through. I thought that, as a good person who cared about kids and their well-being, I could help students, even ones who had struggles and challenges.

Of course, I found out that I was wrong. It’s so easy for people to read that story and think about how they would never do what she did. It’s easy for people to say that they would never ride students to the point where the students felt so trapped and stressed that they hated their very existence. Not only is it easy to say, but it makes people feel good about themselves to think that they are good, that others are bad, and that if only more people were good (like they are), then schools, communities, and our world would be good, too.

I found out the truth during my first few days of teaching. The truth is that all of us are capable of both good and evil. The amount and kind of good or evil that we are capable of varies depending on many factors, not the least of which is the amount of