# About the Author

Scott Ervin has worked with kids for more than two decades. Most of his experience has been spent working with extremely difficult, at-risk, abused, and neglected kids. For the last 11 years of his teaching career, he requested that all of the most difficult kids in the grade be placed in his classroom as a teacher and in his building as a principal and superintendent. For the last five of those years, he worked at one of the largest primary schools in the United States and requested that all of the most difficult kids out of 400 3rd graders be placed on his class roster. In addition, students in other classrooms whose behavior made it impossible for others to learn in their assigned classrooms throughout the year were all moved to Scott’s room.

Scott has served as a principal, superintendent, and discipline specialist. The classrooms in which he has worked had poverty rates between 84 and 98 percent. As a consultant and founder of Ervin Educational Consulting, Scott has traveled the country teaching parents and educators alike how to be calm and assertive with children.

Scott has a Bachelor of Arts in political science and a master’s degree in education. He has taught classroom management as an adjunct professor at Antioch University Midwest and as a visiting lecturer at Ohio University, University of Dayton, and Wright State University. He also writes a syndicated newspaper column, “Ask the Kid Whisperer.” To hire a behavioral consultant or for more information, go to www.ervineducationalconsulting.com or email support@ervineducationalconsulting.com.

277