84 The Classroom Behavior Manual

8. We use the Class Applause procedure, which you will learn later in this chapter, to conclude the ceremony.

**Remember: Keep It Silly, Keep It Strange**

My way is just one way to perform the Nickname Ceremony. I encourage you to adopt your own creative approach. Just remember to include these four elements:

- Make it strange and entertaining.
- Incorporate faux emotion (the louder the better) and props or costumes.
- Make yourself look at least a little silly.
- Use the same structure every time. I mean it.

**For Secondary Grades: Set It Up Properly and Get Out of the Way (While Monitoring)**

Secondary students love to create their own ceremony for this procedure and will very much look forward to it if, while planning and performing it, they both feel emotionally safe and are given appropriate (in this case, a lot of) control. All you must do with secondary students is privately get approval from an individual student on the nickname, as described above, and monitor students as they create and implement the ritual that they will use for the rest of the year. Use previously described procedures for borderline appropriate ritual suggestions. The ritual may be something intricately silly, or it may be something basic and boring. It doesn’t matter what it is—it just matters that it is theirs.

Have the students be the ones to perform the ceremony with each other, using nicknames created by the teacher and approved by the student. Allow any sharing of the performance of the ritual that is in line with your sense of fairness. You can have a “class clown” lead the ritual every time or have teams of the day perform it. This can depend on how your students want to divide these responsibilities.

Monitor the ceremony planning and performances to make sure students are not being hurtful or mean. Use Delayed Learning Opportunities if and when appropriate (see Chapter 11). As much as possible, stay out of this procedure! This is an excellent chance to sit at your desk with your feet up.

Note that for secondary school, if multiple or all teachers are creating student nicknames, some intraclass communication is in order. Often, homeroom classes will produce nicknames (this is optimal if these rooms do not teach academic content), or the last class will produce the names. For intermediate grades that switch rooms