Academic Control-Sharing Procedures 143

creating news desks, comedy sketches, and so on. Homeroom, perhaps more than any other period, should be like a clubhouse where students like to be. A fantastically welcoming, loving middle or high school homeroom can improve student attendance and promptness!

When appropriate for the grade level, the TOD can also be in charge of arranging the calendar, weather report, and so on. Any and all activities that you do routinely that are not being done by a hired student in the morning should be done by the TOD.

**Get Started**

At a time of your choosing, you or your student prompter will prompt the class to prepare for the student-led Morning Meeting. If students are moving from one place to another to begin the meeting (usually desks to carpet for younger students), after a reasonable amount of time, ask a student who is silent with a clean workspace to start the Lock-It-In procedure (see Chapter 7). As students transition, the TOD team captain will go in front of the group and begin Morning Meeting as soon as all students are silent and seated. For students who are not transitioning locations, skip the Lock-It-In step and simply have the TOD team captain begin Morning Meeting. After each activity, members of the TOD will select another TOD member. Once all TOD members have run part of the meeting, the TOD starts over, going through the students in the same order.

Of course, these components are merely suggestions. As a teacher, you are the expert in what elements of the Morning Meeting are most appropriate for your class. How you run Morning Meeting is more important than its elements. Make this procedure your own, but ensure that the time is owned and operated by your students and that you are barely working, or not working at all, during this period of time.

All this being said, on the first day, you should run most or all of Morning Meeting yourself for modeling purposes. It will be exhausting, but don’t worry: you won’t do this again until the first day of school next year. Make sure you communicate to your students that, starting tomorrow, they will be taking over some, most, or all of these responsibilities (depending on their developmental levels). Daring teachers of older students may want students to do parts of Morning Meeting without any modeling. For all students, hand over these responsibilities as soon as possible.

The following directions for elements of a Morning Meeting are presented from the perspective of a classroom whose students are fully in control of Morning Meeting. You decide when that should be. Generally, all aspects of the Morning Meeting should be handed over in the first three weeks of school for grades 3 through