Relationship-Building Strategies 61

how you were raised can be endlessly fascinating to students, especially if it is different from how they are growing up. It will greatly increase students’ ability to see you as a person with feelings, hopes, and dreams if they know more about who you were as a child, who your parents are or were, and what type of lifestyle you had as a child.

Who you are now is also important to share. Sharing the area in which you live, how you live, and with whom you live allows students to relate to you as a human and not just a teacher. Bringing in pictures, talking about their families, and, as much as possible, talking about your family and even having your family visit with your students are all authentic ways of building relationships.

## Allow Yourself to Be Silly

Being able to be silly in front of other people takes and demonstrates strength. It is an FLA (Friendly, Loving Alpha) move. Students want to bond with FLAs. It makes them feel safe and fulfills a control need to know that they are protected by and friendly with an FLA. This is an alpha strategy. In addition, the older students are, the more effective being silly in front of them becomes, because middle and high school students often do everything they can to not look silly in front of their peers. These students tend to see intentionally looking silly in front of people as a monumental feat, and they respect it.

Incorporate silliness into your lesson plans. Plan out a time where you know you will be goofy. Many of the procedures that follow already include times to do this in a scripted way (the Nickname Ceremony in Chapter 5 or Shake It Out in Chapter 8, for example). Look for opportunities throughout the day to be weird. When middle and high school students roll their eyes (they will), that means it’s working. Make it weirder! The goal is not for students to think that you are cool; it is to make them realize that you are the FLA. You are not their friend; you are their weird boss who loves them.

## Allow Yourself to Not Know Things

One of the hardest parts of being a child is that children barely know anything yet. So many unknowns make the world a scary place. Admitting that you don’t know things shows your students that everyone is, more or less, in the same boat: everyone has plenty of things to learn. Handling not knowing things correctly is so important. Here’s how to do it in a helpful, realistic way that builds relationships with students, models for students how to have a growth mindset, and allows for optimal student growth. This can be done whether discussing something within a lesson or something wholly nonacademic.