250 The Classroom Behavior Manual

DLO inevitability logistics create this essential paradigm for students. Once inevitability is achieved, students will be cooperative when they are asked to solve problems they caused or practice a positive behavior. In addition, creating inevitability will cause the student to stop their negative behavior when you use your DLO Delaying Script. What’s more, if DLO inevitability is consistent, the mere use of the Calm Signal will be enough to stop the behavior.

Furthermore, once inevitability is achieved, GGIs will be significantly more effective. The power of each one will be supercharged, allowing you to control behaviors in ways that you could not previously. Inevitable DLOs act as a vaccine that works its way back up the continuum of the procedures and strategies in this manual, making them all more effective. Eventually, students can concentrate on learning while feeling safe and happy at school.

Unfortunately, not establishing DLO inevitability and allowing students’ DLO refusals to get them out of responsibility for their actions has the opposite effect. It acts as a cancer that spreads to everything in this manual, making it all less effective in eliciting positive behaviors from students.

**How Do I Actually Create DLO Inevitability for Students?**

Creating DLO inevitability first involves a teacher paradigm shift. Instead of dreading a student’s refusal of a DLO, you should hope that it occurs. When a student refuses, they are saying to you that they have not yet learned that the refusal of a reasonable request from an authority figure will not absolve them from responsibility for their actions and will not get them what they want. This is the most important learning opportunity they will ever have, and you have the honor of being a part of it. This is where you can save a life; they will not be happy or successful in life without learning this lesson.

The essential understanding of DLO inevitability logistics is that, as long as you have the logistics set up correctly, every moment that a student refuses to be cooperative is a positive learning experience for the student. During DLO refusal, a student is constantly attempting to get out of responsibility for their actions. As long as the tool of refusal doesn’t work, the student is learning that it doesn’t work. When they are belligerent or even violent, they are using tools to the same end, with the same result. In this way, the worse the behavior gets, the more they are learning, and the more important the lesson becomes. The purpose of DLO inevitability logistics is to make sure that, no matter how long it takes, the student will continue to learn their most important lesson.