Delayed Learning Opportunities 245

- As a behavioral “Now” activity (see Chapter 8 and the Real-World Workshop procedure)

Notice that these are all noninstructional times. Your school rules, your schedule, or your own personal value structure or priorities may prevent you from using all of these options, but you must use some of them if you are going to be able to successfully train students to use positive behaviors. Choose the times that work best for you. A student can, and often will, do DLOs over multiple time periods. If recess is all that is available, it may take 10 recesses to solve a problem or practice a behavior, especially if a student refuses to learn during the first DLO implementation.

Keep in mind that the more outlandish these times appear to be, the more effective they are. For years, I planned on coming into work for one Saturday in August and one Saturday in early September for about three hours each day to deliver DLOs. Even though I donated just six hours for the year, my students “knew” that I lived at school and that I was perfectly happy to spend all my free time helping students solve problems and practice positive behaviors. Similarly, DLO delivery after and before school can let students know that no matter how long it takes for them to solve problems and practice positive behaviors, you will be there to help them do so.

After-school activities may be missed in order to take part in a DLO. This supercharges the lesson that when you use negative behaviors, your life gets worse. Just remember that the pain in this scenario must be incidental, not the point. If it is the point, then it is a punishment, not a DLO. Never couch a DLO in terms of “You backtalked me, and now you’re not going to football practice! Hah!” That’s a punishment, not a DLO. If the student happens to miss football practice, just let the pain of that reality do the teaching, instead of piling on and pouring lemon juice on the wound.

## How Do I Deliver a DLO?

Once you have thought through your DLO, including making sure it follows DLO guidelines (no punishing), chosen a noninstructional time to deliver it, and worked out all of the logistical issues, you can deliver your DLO. During DLO delivery, act as a friendly person who is going to teach something, not an angry dungeon master who is there to inflict pain. Act exactly as you would if you were having a student come in to learn about algebra, division, or keyboarding. Concentrate on being nice.

For now, let’s assume that all students will be cooperative (many will not; see below for how to use proper inevitability logistics for students who, at first, refuse to learn lessons). Whether you are picking up a student or they are coming to your room, greet them as though you are going to teach them a lesson (because you are). You can engage in small talk, especially if you are picking them up from another