Student Job Procedures 109

## Student Prompter

How often do you have to prompt students to do things in school? Students in K–12 schools are told what to do hundreds of times per day. Every time a person is told what to do, they feel at least some loss of control. The cumulative effect of being bossed around every day, over and over again, is that students will do whatever it takes to get their feeling of control back.

This is especially true for HCNCs. Students who have experienced trauma can be triggered simply by being told what to do, especially in the form of repeated imperatives. HCNCs become determined to get the control back on their terms, possibly through overtly aggressive, passively aggressive, or passive-resistant behaviors. Much of this can be avoided by using interventions instead of making demands (see Chapter 9).

Another way to avoid taking away control from students (and, in fact, give them more control) is to have the students themselves prompt each other to do things. This includes students prompting each other to clean up after morning activities, before lunch, and at the end of the day. Students can also be in charge of prompting the class to be quiet. Finally, they can prompt the teacher when it is time for students to leave the room for special education services, occupational therapy, physical therapy, scheduled trips to the nurse, or Title I Reading services.

As with all procedures, the job of Student Prompter is designed to make your life as a teacher significantly easier. You no longer need to keep your eyes on the clock: students are now responsible for this. It isn’t reasonable for teachers to have to think about the individual schedules of 25–35 students every day. Using these procedures will leave you with more time and mental energy to do your job.

These are simply prompts to begin the process of preparing to transition. This is not having students transition from one thing to the next.

For each category of Student Prompter, begin the year by using the prompt yourself, all the while only taking the control that you need. Then pass the responsibility to your student(s) following the directions below. Modify the directions or script slightly, depending on which prompting routine you are introducing.

### Directions

Model the use of whichever prompt you choose for as many days as you feel is developmentally appropriate. During Morning Meeting (this would take place at the beginning of homeroom period for middle and high school) on the fourth day of school (for example), let your students know that you don’t like to boss kids around, and for four days you have had to by prompting them (to transition from morning