50 The Classroom Behavior Manual

Many difficult students have self-esteem issues and trust issues. If you say, “You are great!” those students will say to themselves, “No, I’m not! What are you up to and what do you want from me?” They will often use even more negative behaviors in order to get you to stop praising them. Why? Praise involves a value judgment. “You are great” means “I have judged you to be great.” Difficult students hate value judgments.

Fight the urge to notice and then praise:

I noticed that you are working hard . . . and that’s great!

Praise isn’t effective enough to be included in this manual. Stick to Strategic Noticing.

## “Liking” What Students Do Is Not Effective Enough

Many untrained teachers, particularly teachers of younger students, will say aloud that they like certain behaviors: “I like the way Tyreke is sitting.” This may be somewhat effective with easier, younger kids, but it will backfire horribly with everyone else. Here’s why: difficult kids don’t want you to “like” what they do, and they really don’t want you to like what they do in front of their friends! Again, “somewhat effective” strategies are not good enough to be included in this manual. Don’t like what students do—notice what they do.

## A Behavior Management Paradigm Shift

Before reading this manual, most teachers will have some semblance of the following philosophy about teaching and behavior management: When everything is going well with behavior, I will teach. When things go poorly, I will react to those behaviors, stop them, and then go back to teaching. As we have discussed, this paradigm leads to ignoring positive behaviors, encouraging negative behaviors, failing to perpetuate the “Good Kid” Cycle, and reinforcing the “Bad Kid” Cycle.

Instead, with Strategic Noticing being our primary means of preventing negative behaviors, our new philosophy is the following: I will immediately notice positive behaviors before I teach and while I am teaching, over and over again. This will prevent a vast majority of negative behaviors. When things go poorly, I will gently guide students back to using positive behaviors with minimal attention. If that doesn’t work, I will use other strategies learned from this book.

Instead of reacting to and reinforcing negative behaviors, effective teachers systematically put a vast majority of their energy toward prevention. Ashley Owen, a 3rd grade teacher and behavioral leadership coach, created a very effective rule of thumb that we now call the 70-20-10 Rule: 70 percent of all energy and time you put toward behavioral leadership should go toward the use of Strategic Noticing, while 20