94 The Classroom Behavior Manual

how much it covers. This rule closes loopholes that more specific rules leave open, and you can apply it to any situation. Rather than coming up with new rules for unique situations (assemblies, field trips, field day), you can use this rule. Plus, you’re training students for life.

Think about it: the rule encourages students to learn to consider the consequences before they act. Before doing something, they may ask themselves, “Does this cause a problem?” If they did not ask themselves this, or if they answer incorrectly and do something that causes a problem, just smile and ask, “Does that cause a problem?” Most likely, the student will realize that it does and stop. (We’ll get to what to do when the student continues the behavior shortly.)

When a student exhibits a dubious behavior, and it’s unclear whether it causes a problem, you should still ask, “Does that cause a problem?” The student might offer opinions, in which case you can respond, “I’m not sure. Let’s all figure it out later.” Let’s look at an example of this situation.

The bus riders in a class walk in line to the buses at the end of the day. One student decides to stop and get a drink at the water fountain. The teacher asks, “Does that cause a problem?” The student says that it doesn’t. The teacher says, “OK, I’m not sure. Let’s all figure it out later.” The next day, during the Morning or Afternoon Meeting, the teacher describes the situation and asks, “Does a student stopping to get a drink in this instance cause a problem?” The teacher then manages the discussion, inviting all students to share their opinions, listening to them, and asking targeted questions. Through the discussion, the teacher guides students to realize that, in this situation, stopping to get a drink does cause a problem. Why? Because students are walking in a line. When one student stops, the rest of the line stops or gets jumbled. The student stopping causes a problem because it inconveniences, confuses, or delays others. Therefore, stopping for a drink before going to the buses is no longer allowed under the Class Rules.

## Due Process

The Fifth Amendment to the U.S. Constitution reads, in part, “No person shall . . . be deprived of life, liberty, or property, without due process of law.” The phrase “due process” means that people have a right to not be punished arbitrarily. They have a right to make their case and be heard. This principle dates back long before the Constitution; it has its roots in the Magna Carta of 1215, and even in ancient Athens, the birthplace of much democratic thought.

Due process is a fundamental principle of democratic governance, and students, the citizens of your classroom, have a right to expect it, too. Therefore, immediately