204 The Classroom Behavior Manual

are ready to be prosocial learners and teachers; others must take Mindfulness Breaks until the moment they are able to become prosocial learners and teachers. (Yes, as a teacher, you can use Mindfulness Breaks as well.)

## Mindfulness Breaks: What They Are Not

Mindfulness Breaks are not desperate, last-ditch attempts to remove the student after they have become belligerent and angry. They are not punishments that attempt to inflict pain on students to get them to “behave.” They are not a way of rejecting students. They are not a means of embarrassing students. They are not a way of hurting students’ feelings. They are not time-outs.

## A Necessary Alternative to Catastrophic Tactics

Mindfulness Breaks are a desperately needed alternative to two of the most hurtful tactics of traditional discipline: sending disruptive students to the principal, and using a sensory room when students use disruptive behaviors. These tactics are often employed with the best of intentions by people who care about students. Unfortunately, sending students to the principal or using a sensory room in this capacity can destroy entire schools—and has done so over and over again.

At first glance, these two tactics seems to make logical sense. They both accomplish their primary goal: they remove disruptive students from the learning environment so students can learn and teachers can teach. In addition, a sensory room is designed to give students a chance to return to a functional state of mind and return to class after someone has engaged the student in sensory activities.

Unfortunately, as any experienced teacher can tell you, the negative outcomes from these tactics far outweigh the supposed benefits, and those benefits are only immediate in that the student is removed from a negative situation. However, both tactics make negative behaviors far more likely in the future. To be clear, the catastrophic effects of a sensory room refer to using a sensory room to house students who have been disruptive. Scheduled trips to a sensory room managed by staff (usually occupational therapy professionals) are a functional and appropriate use of effective interventions.

## Negative Effects of Sending Students to the Principal’s Office

Any teacher can tell you that sending a student to the principal does not make negative behaviors any less likely. Sending students to the office often encourages negative behaviors, which leads to suspensions, which leads to expulsions, which