Academic Control-Sharing Procedures 177

## Daily Schedule Review

A review of the day’s accomplishments is an essential part of Afternoon Meeting. For older students, this review will almost always be less specific and more casual in nature, since middle and high school students sharing their last period class will almost never have done all of the same lessons. Nevertheless, some sort of final review or checklist should be performed by a student for the benefit of all at the end of the day.

The TOD team captain can also use this time for announcements or reminders about upcoming events. Middle and high school students will likely be better at this than their younger counterparts, and they should be allowed to take as much ownership of these duties as they’d like. For younger students, it is necessary to review the lessons and events of the day in terms of what was done and what was learned. In this case, the TOD team captain points to each item on the list and asks for a choral response from the class.

TOD team captain: “Did we do Morning Meeting?”  
Class: “Yes!”  
TOD team captain puts a check mark next to “Morning Meeting.”  
TOD team captain: “Did we learn about rays and angles?”  
Class: “Yes!”  
TOD team captain puts a check mark next to “Learn about rays and angles.”  
TOD team captain: “Did we write a thank-you card to Officer James?”  
Class: “No!”  
TOD team captain circles “Write a thank-you card to Officer James.”  
TOD team captain: “Did we learn to throw a ball at a target in PE?”  
Class: “Yes!”  
TOD team captain puts a check mark next to “Learn to throw a ball at a target in PE.”  
… and so on.

Besides giving a tremendous amount of healthy control and ownership to students, this schedule review subprocedure gives you the added benefit of being able to look at the daily schedule and see, at a glance, what was and was not accomplished that day. Any circled items can appear on the next day’s schedule.

## Activity Choices or Ceremony

At this point of Afternoon Meeting, you can either allow the students to choose a game or hold a Nickname Ceremony (see Chapter 5). The daily game choices must be given by you, at least at first. If and when appropriate, and if and when you are