# Acknowledgments

There is no possible way that this book would have ever been completed without my wife, Jessica Ervin. Her talents as a teacher of children, an editor, a collaborator, a critic, a mother, a thinker, a problem solver, and a person who always knows where I left my keys made this book what it is. She put at least as much effort into the creation of this manual as I did. I love you, Jess.

We couldn’t have written this book without our daughter, Violet Ervin. She was always understanding when we had to work long hours on this book and was patient when conversations at the dinner table would drift to work, to editing, or to the book’s content. I love you, Vi, and I am inspired by who you are and who you will become.

Bob Sornson, your wisdom knows no bounds. Your mentorship guided me before, during, and, hopefully, after publishing this book. Our conversations led me to greater understandings of what it is that I am working toward and what this book should be.

To my mentor, Jim Fay. All I ever wanted to be was a teacher and a dad. Without you, I wouldn’t have been very good at either. This book could never have been written without you because, without you, I would not have survived my third year of teaching. When they write about the most important people in the history of education, anything without your name will be incomplete.

Bill Pflaum, your singular genius enabled you to see an actual book within my original “angry manifesto.” Your insight, advice, selfless hard work, brilliant ideas,

267