180 The Classroom Behavior Manual

person and says, “Thank you.” The teacher looks at the ball and says, “Red ball.” The teacher then makes eye contact with a student.

The teacher pantomimes throwing the ball toward that student in a deliberate manner, slowly following through toward the targeted student. The student repeats all of the above actions, choosing another student or throwing the ball back to the teacher.

Once students seem to have achieved a reasonable amount of fluency, the teacher repeats the above actions, this time accepting an invisible “blue ball” from the invisible ball thrower. There are now two invisible balls in play. The teacher adds a new invisible ball (of a different color, of course) every 30 seconds or so.

As long as the students are successful, keep adding balls of different colors. When students are keeping a normal number of balls going for their developmental level, use normal “boring” colors (red, blue, green). Once they start to keep a number of balls going that seems to be particularly impressive, start adding ball colors that ignite the imagination a bit (silver, gold, rainbow, white fire, indigo). If you can remember and repeat the same color order on different days, it can add to the excitement for kids, especially ones who have been raised using leveled video games.

This game teaches kids to listen quietly, to concentrate, and to work cooperatively, but don’t tell students what they should be learning. Instead, let the game do the teaching.

**Czechoslovakia Boom-Sha-Boom.** This game involves the students and teacher standing in a circle so everyone can see everyone else. The teacher slowly and methodically demonstrates a basic clapping motion as students join in: clap, thigh slap, clap, thigh slap. The teacher tells students that the first time through this weird song, they should just listen, unless they start to figure out the pattern and want to try joining in on the first run-through.

The teacher begins singing the following song to the beat of slow clapping/thigh slapping:

Czechoslovakia boom-sha-boom  
Yugoslavia boom-sha-boom  
Who’s got the rhythm of the hands? (clap-clap-clap)  
We got the rhythm of the hands. (clap-clap-clap)  
Who’s got the rhythm of the feet? (stomp-stomp-stomp)  
We got the rhythm of the feet. (stomp-stomp-stomp)  
Who’s got the rhythm of the hips? (ono-mato-poeia) [while doing a running motion with fists and shaking hips from side to side with each part of the word]  
We got the rhythm of the hips. (ono-mato-poeia) [same motions]