Academic Control-Sharing Procedures 167

being led by secondary students. Of course, manage and monitor that all musical artists and songs are school-appropriate. The script for giving students choices about voice level and music during Real-World Workshop is as follows:

OK, here we go. Show of hands: who would like silent workshop? [Count hands.] Who would like whispering workshop? [Count hands.] Who would like soft talking workshop? [Count hands.] Who does not want music? [Count hands.] Who does want music? [Count hands.] We will listen to either Beyoncé or Taylor Swift. Who wants Beyoncé? [Count hands.] Who wants Taylor Swift? [Count hands.] [Musical artist] it is. I will begin playing the music when I hear [chosen voice level here].

Find the artist on a device, put your finger on the “play” button or mouse, look up at your class with a smile, and begin playing music when the proper voice level is achieved. If the proper voice level is not achieved within 10 seconds, say the following:

Oh, man. No music today.

Then immediately enforce the limits that you just set.

Note that students will choose soft talking workshop 95 percent of the time, but which level they choose is 100 percent irrelevant. What is relevant is that they are systematically, repeatedly, and on an overwhelming basis given a feeling of control. Secondary students are guaranteed to roll their eyes and act annoyed by this procedure. Again, their acceptance of doing this as “cool” (or whatever teenagers say) is irrelevant. The point is for the students to be bombarded by choice, even to the point that it becomes “uncool.” Actual counting of hands is not necessary, unless it looks like either silent or whisper Workshop might get the majority vote, which will be rare.

## Enforcing the Limits

Individual and Small-Group PLOs. Remember, there will be absolutely no warnings. When one, two, or three students choose to speak above whichever voice level has been voted upon, the consequence is always the same, and it is expressed by walking near the student(s) and saying the following:

[Elementary] Oh, man. Could you put your head down and listen for the [current voice level]?

[Secondary] Oh, man. Retune.

The students will then put their heads down on their tables or desks for anywhere between 25 seconds and 10 minutes, depending on the age and developmental level of the students and how often they have had to listen to the voice level in the past. The idea of the listening consequence is that they are fine-tuning their ears to be able to