Part III: Control-Sharing Procedures 103

not give Juriah enough control that he wouldn’t seek more control in unhealthy ways (the only ways he knew how).

The only way Juriah was going to use prosocial behaviors was if he was systematically given plenty of healthy control through the use of Control-Sharing Strategies and the establishment of Control-Sharing Procedures.

Starting on that very first day, I gave Juriah control on my terms so that he wouldn’t try to take it on his terms. He and his classmates taught the first 30 minutes of every school day. The students were given control of transitions from one activity to another. Students led the hallway line. He and other students followed a procedure for deciding upon voice level for worktime, and the students themselves would tell the class when it was time to clean up or be quiet.

In addition, I almost never told students, especially HCNCs like Juriah, to stop using negative behaviors. Instead, I would use small interventions to gently guide them toward positive behaviors. When I would fail at successfully guiding Juriah, I would calmly use consequences at some point later, when he and I were neither stressed nor busy.

I also gave Juriah a job on the second day of school. It was one of the many jobs I gave to my students. I told Juriah that he was in charge of telling students it was time to throw away their breakfast (we ate breakfast in our rooms). At 8:04, and no later, he was to say, “Three big bites, three big sips, you know what to do.” Later, the class came up with another verbal prompt for him to say: “Blip, blop” (see Chapter 6). I told him that he could have that job as long as he always did it right and never forgot. I told him that if I ever looked up at the clock and it read 8:05 before he had given the class our prompt, he would be fired, just like in real life, where if you do your job poorly, you lose it.

How do you think Juriah’s newfound employment as a breakfast prompter went? After all, his 2nd grade teacher thought that he was so stupid and terrible at following directions that he didn’t belong in our school.

Juriah did that job to perfection every single day for 176 days in a row: a record for any student for any job before or since. He forgot to do it on the second-to-last day of school, and he was fired, with sadness and empathy. He was allowed to make a new hire (per the procedure described in Chapter 6).

Why was such a student able to be so successful? The reason was that Juriah was actually smart, but more important, he was an HCNC. High-control need children will do anything to get, have, and keep control. This is why traditional means of dealing with HCNCs backfire. When we tell HCNCs what to do (“Listen,” “Be quiet,” “Line up,” “Stop touching him”), we make it less likely that they will do any of these things,