60 The Classroom Behavior Manual

## Go Out of Your Way for Your Individual Students (Without Conditions)

Do things for your students that relate to what they need or want. Go out of your way to do things and purchase things for your students. Again, this should never be a reward for behavior; you should never say something like “Don’t interrupt me all week, and I’ll get you a comic book.” You can say, however, “I heard you talking about how you like *The Incredible Hulk*, so I got you this comic book.”

Here are a few other ways to go out of your way for individual students:

- Check out books from the library the student would like.
- Help the student register for an outside-of-school activity (with parental consent).
- Go online to research an interest or concern of the student and share what you found.

Most difficult students have had very few adults do nice things for them for no other reason than to be nice. This can include parents and relatives as well as teachers in schools where tangible rewards are often dangled in front of students (reward parties/dances or prizes from the treasure chest). The fewer times in a child’s life that adults have been nice to them for no reason, the more effective these strategies will be.

## Authentically Finding Common Ground and Sharing Your Life Authentically

It is a well-worn and conventionally accepted practice to try to find common ground with your students as a means of building relationships. This can be effective when done authentically, but it can backfire when done in a contrived way.

Trying to connect with students by finding common ground should only be attempted when there truly is common ground. Students have an amazing ability to sniff out a teacher who pretends to have a mutual interest with them. If you do not like Cardi B, don’t pretend that you do. They will know, and your pretense will cause damage to your relationship. If you do not actually like basketball, or the L.A. Lakers, or ballet, or shopping, or Instagram, don’t try to fake it.

The honest reality is that if you are a 65-year-old middle-class woman who was raised on a farm in Minnesota, you may not have a lot in common with a 9-year-old boy born in Mexico and living in inner-city Houston. The good news in this situation is that you can still share your own life authentically, and this can be more effective, easier, and sometimes more rewarding even than finding common ground. Sharing