Delayed Learning Opportunities 237

Problem-Solving DLO: The student must create a comprehensive, written plan for how he is going to make that student feel safe while on school property, including, if applicable, the bus. The student is held back from being in close proximity of the threatened student until this plan is completed. He will be excluded from all situations where the two students would be able to cross paths. This could include proximity in a classroom, changing classes, lunch, recess (for younger students), the bus, or participation in activities or sports where the students may be near each other. The threatening student should be fully restricted from these situations until the plan is completed.

The plan could involve self-imposed rules for avoiding the student while in the same room or area, such as staying at a lunch table away from the threatened student, being restricted to a certain bus seat, or taking a certain route between classes. There might be an agreement that threatening the student while at, for example, basketball practice, would result in a five-game suspension. The threatener should not be forced to write an apology into the plan, though this can be included.

Once the plan is completed, the threatener should present it to the threatenee by reading it to them. If the threatenee says that the plan makes them feel safe, the threatener may come back into the mainstream of the school under the conditions of the plan. If not, the threatenee can request through a conversation, moderated by you, that certain requirements be added or taken away. If all parties (threatener, threatenee, and teacher) agree to the appropriateness of terms, the threatener may return to the mainstream of the school. If the threatener does anything even mildly threatening to the threatened student, he should be immediately isolated, just as he was before.

At a time that is appropriate and convenient, the threatenee and the teacher can meet and revisit the terms of the plan. The threatenee can be asked if any of the terms of the plan can be relaxed or eliminated. The teacher can notify the threatener of any changes to the plan.

- DLO-worthy behavior: A 5th grade student destroys school property.  
  Problem-Solving DLO: Destroyer and teacher do research together regarding the cost of destroyed property. The price should be the current cost for replacing whatever was destroyed.  
  Destroyer should be introduced to the concept of minimum wage and can even do research on what minimum wage is in their state. The student could do work for the school until the destroyed item has been paid off. Duties can be