Student Job Procedures 123

healthy control, I never did. It was calming for me to have everyone going to a certain destination doing the same notification strategy. This way, I would have constant reminders about where the students were going. Also, if a student went to more than one place throughout the week (e.g., occupational therapy at 10:15 on Tuesdays and Title I every day at 2:00), it was just one extra reminder of where that student was going and sometimes, frankly, what day it was.

In my classroom, students going to Title I Reading would approach me and put their hands on top of their heads with the tips of their five fingers touching their scalps and make the following noise, mimicking the obnoxious sounds of an old alarm clock—“MAH-MAH-MAH-MAH!”—until I “turned them off” and they made a beeline out the door. Kids going to special ed pullout would cross their arms in front of themselves, lean back, and give a high-pitched “MEEP-MEEP-MEEP-MEEP!” before I tapped their crossed arms. Any students who had a scheduled appointment to see the nurse would grab their forearm as if it were broken and say “OUCH-OUCH-OUCH-OUCH!” until I tapped their “injured” arm (this completely horrified new students and guests to my room). I would have students going to occupational therapy or physical therapy hop on one foot and say “WHIP-POOR-WILL–WHIP-POOR-WILL–WHIP-POOR-WILL!” I would dismiss them by tapping them on the back. (Don’t try to make sense of that one.) Students going to get speech services would stand directly in front of me, make a mini-megaphone with their hands, put the megaphone to their mouths, and then, mimicking a foghorn, say, “SPEEE-EEECH!”

Imagine how much control this gave these students! Imagine how much fun it was, especially when there were visitors to the room. In these circumstances, it was wonderful to watch students approach me, looking at our visitors with a “Wait’ll they get a load of this!” look on their faces. I still remember the giggles after they got “turned off.” This is yet another way that our classroom felt less like a classroom and more like a clubhouse where we learned things.

For middle and high school students, it’s usually a good idea for them to come up with their own signals. Often these students, the Most Mature People in the World, would rather not do anything as attention-grabbing as the aforementioned ideas, so allow them to propose anything as long as it is appropriate and involves a verbal notification from the student and a physical confirmation from the teacher. It may be as innocuous as the student walking up to the teacher and saying, “Going to OT,” with a fist bump then given to the student by the teacher.

For preK, kindergarten, and 1st grade students and for students with special needs, telling time and remembering to keep track of time may be an unrealistic expectation. While you can err on the side of having too high expectations, you