164 The Classroom Behavior Manual

2. The use of warnings. Students “need” as many warnings as they are given. Astute students take note that when a teacher constantly warns about, in this case, the voice level of the room being too loud, that teacher has proven themselves to be someone who takes no action, even after repeatedly warning that action will be taken. Difficult students quickly realize that they can be as loud as they want, and it will only cause the teacher to become angrier and perhaps more entertaining.

The Voice Level PLO solves both problems simultaneously: the teacher bombards the entire class with choices about voice level and music to be played (or not) while never, ever warning students about their voice level.

**Setting limits.** At the beginning of every single Real-World Workshop, overwhelm your class with choices in a simple, scripted way. Feel free to read the script verbatim or paraphrase, using developmentally appropriate language while introducing Real-World Workshop. The first part will be said only once—right before the first Workshop of the year:

[Class name], we are about to begin Real-World Workshop. We will do this hundreds of times this year. Each time, I will give you three choices on which voice level you prefer. You will vote, and we will keep using that voice level for as many seconds as you can stay on that voice level as a group. I will describe each voice level one time, right now, and I will never bother you all about it again.

One voice level you can choose is silence. Silence, as you know, means absolutely no noises made verbally or with your body.

[Put your index and middle finger on your throat and speak in a whisper.] Whispering is talking like this. I am going to show you a cool trick for determining whether or not you are whispering. If you would like to do this with me, feel free to put your fingers on your throat like I am doing. [Pause.] On the count of three, say your name with your normal speaking voice, and notice if you feel vibrations on your fingers. One, two, three: [say your name]. Did you feel the vibrations? Me too.

[In a whisper.] Now, on the count of three, whisper your name. One, two, three: [say your name in a whisper.] Did you notice that you couldn’t feel a vibration? When we are in Whispering Workshop, if it helps you to remember, you can put your fingers on your throat before talking.

Soft talking is the third option. Soft talking means that someone at another table cannot hear you, but the people at your table can hear you.