Delayed Learning Opportunities 229

Once you choose one, write it after your Calm Signal.

**Part 3: Notification of the DLO**

Once you have a Calm Signal and an expression of regret, you are ready to add the notification of the DLO. This is simply informing the student that they will be learning about their behavior through a DLO at some point in the future. Choose one of the following and complete your script by writing it next to your expression of regret:

I’m going to help you learn about this later.
You can learn about this sometime in the future.
You can do some learning later.

Now you have a completed personalized DLO Delaying Script with a Calm Signal, expression of regret, and notification of the DLO. It should look similar to these:

Oh, man. This is a difficult situation. You can do some learning later.
Yeesh. This is rough. I’m going to help you learn about this later.
(Sound of a slow exhale.) This is a tough one. You can learn about this sometime in the future.

**Delivering Your DLO Delaying Script**

Once you have decided that a DLO is necessary for a student to learn about a behavior, it may help you to think of your Calm Signal as something separate. Perhaps by now you have trained yourself to use the Calm Signal even when frustrated. Once you say your Calm Signal, you should be safe from getting angry. Remember to inhale, and then say your Calm Signal on the exhale. If you are far away from the student, feel free to use the Calm Signal as soon as you see the behavior that makes you think that the student will need a DLO. This one is for you; this Calm Signal is used so you don’t swear. It’s used so you don’t say or do something you’ll regret. At this point, any calming effect that it has on the student is of secondary importance.

Now you should slowly walk toward the culprit. Avoid squaring your shoulders to the student. Look sad. You can keep your palms up with your hands open. This is your nonthreatening stance. Whenever possible, quietly whisper your script into the student’s ear, then walk away.

In certain situations, it may be difficult or impossible to move next to a student and whisper in a way that doesn’t draw more attention to the situation (for instance, during a read-aloud with young students). In these situations, you can say the script while fixing your gaze on the middle distance, never looking directly at any student.