# Procedure for Structuring a Morning Meeting

Having morning meetings allows the teacher to set the tone for the day. Keep in mind that we can never control what our students have experienced prior to entering our classrooms. However, we can create a safe space which will help to lighten the load. Morning meetings are a good way to teach students conative skills. Overall, these daily meetings can last anywhere from twenty to thirty minutes. Teachers must have an intentional plan while structuring a morning meeting just as they would with any other lessons.

**Remember:** Do not start a morning meeting routine unless you have time in your daily schedule. This ensures the teacher has a planned outcome. What is the morning meeting’s purpose? Like any routine, it must be practiced and repeated.

Read about morning meetings or observe other teachers who have established this routine in their classroom.

Decide if you want to incorporate morning meetings into your classroom structure.

Like any new initiative, students must have a protocol. Take time to teach students the morning meetings’ structure, as well as its expectations and goals.

Send a newsletter or other correspondence to parents, informing them of how you are implementing morning meetings in your classroom. Including parents/guardians in your classroom initiatives, as well as informing them of expectations and goals, can prompt at-home reinforcement.

I have listed four components below to help structure your morning meeting:

**The Greeting** - This is how students will greet one another. Be creative. Personalize the greeting to fit your classroom and students. It is okay if the students choose their own handshake, their own song, and/or their own unique greeting.

**Recap** - Students will summarize information regarding the previous day’s meeting or lesson, while reviewing or reiterating topics. The teacher chooses a topic at the beginning, while establishing the