# Parent/Teacher Conferences

As intimidating as this sounds, it is also one of the most effective policies to incorporate while teaching. Without the parents’ support, we can only go so far.

The secret to making parent/teacher conferences run smoothly involves pre-planning and scheduling.

## Pre-planning:

Have all the information ready in advance for each conference. It may be easier to get file folders, labeling each folder with the student’s name. Add student work and information as you go. For instance, if there is an assignment relating to writing, math, or reading which you would like to show parents, add it as you go throughout the year. This way, you are not seeking and searching for work when parent/teacher conferences come around. It is already in the folder and you will just need to organize it before the conference. Also, if necessary, send parents information they need ahead of time. Therefore, you can get right into discussing the child. Have progress reports, as well as all other academic data, in the folder and ready to go for the conference.

## Scheduling:

When parents show up to conferences, sometimes they are just getting off work. They may have other conferences to attend and so, you only have a few minutes to grab their attention. Hence, do your best to inform them about their child’s performance. Usually schools have a standard template they send to parents for scheduling times and dates for conferences; though if they do not, there is a sample after this section. Give the parents a few weeks’ notice to make arrangements and to select a day and time. When parents have done this, it may help to put all the dates and times on a spreadsheet. Make notes of what you want to discuss with the parents. Be sure to follow up with parents/guardians, confirming their date and time of the conference. What are some things you would like to discuss? If parents/guardians have not selected a day and/or time, you may want to assign them a time slot. Follow up to see if it works for them. By all means, try to have a face-to-face conference. Overall, this is more effective and helpful toward building relationships. If you are unable to meet a parent face-to-face, try a