# Procedure for When Students Are Finished Working

"I'M DONE!"

These two words will be engraved in your brain. When students are finished working, they do not have anything else to do afterwards. While students are working, the teacher is usually walking around and monitoring for student evidence. Let us say that you are helping a student try to understand a task. Meanwhile, another student has already finished. The student, upon his or her completion, yells out in class, “I’m done! Teacher, I’m done!” They then get impatient, coming over to where you are. You can tell the student to go back to their seat, but that does not solve the problem. He or she is still finished with their work. What should be avoided is multiple students coming up to you for direction. This leaves multiple students sitting at their desks left to entertain themselves. After all, they have nothing to do.

**Remember:** It is easier for students to transition into another learning skill rather than being refocused and re-engaged into another learning skill. Think about it. Would you want to stop having fun and go back to work?

Make a *When I’m Finished* list on the board, where you list activities students can do once they finish their work. This is one way students can transition into another capacity of learning.

Below is a sample list which can be used throughout the day as students finish their work. A list of this sort can be created by the teacher. If you would like for the students to have ownership in this, then students and teachers can create it together.