Transitions can be a challenge at any time of the day, but it can be outright stressful during safety drills! If you have a mentor, ask them where to find the school’s safety drill policy and procedures. Then, align your classroom policy to it. If your mentor is unsure, ask your principal. Most schools have a safety drill procedure which breaks down when safety drills are conducted, how to administer the procedures, and the expectations of each procedure.

It will be important to know which exits to take during a fire drill, where to take students during a tornado drill, and what to do in the classroom during security drills. These things should be outlined by the school principal. Likewise, you should easily be able to obtain a copy.

During fire drills, students will have to line up and exit the building to their designated area as soon as possible. Before you leave the classroom, and upon arriving at the designated area, the teacher will have to account for each student. One way to expedite this process is to have students line up in fire drill order. This is something that must be practiced, but fire drill order is typically alphabetical order. Therefore, you can easily go down the list of your roster and account for every student. Most classroom rosters are in alphabetical order, so it is convenient to keep an updated classroom roster at all times. The last student will turn off the lights and close the door.

Once you get the students safely outside to their designated area, you will have to report whether all of your students are present or if there are any missing. This can be done by simply holding up a sign that states: ALL CLEAR or NOT CLEAR. If you display “ALL CLEAR” it means you can account for all your students and there are no immediate issues to address. If you display “NOT CLEAR” it means you either cannot account for all your students, or there is an immediate issue that needs to be addressed. Once you identify the student you are unable to account for, other classes can also assist in the search. They can determine if maybe he or she has gotten in their classroom line by accident. If there is a need to re-enter the building, this should only be done by the school administrator or security personnel. Unless a teacher has been given the all clear to re-enter the building, they should remain at their designated area.