Although, they can have big pay offs in the classroom. Academic games are not designed to keep students busy, but it is a way to help students focus on learning.

- Determine what you want students to know and show.
- Determine the game’s complexity level.
- Plan for ways to create interactive games at the same complexity level.

- **Physical Movement**- I wrote a book called *101 Ways to Get Teaching Restored When Students Grow Bored*. It contains several interactive instructional strategies. Any lesson can be converted into an interactive lesson. It may take a bit more planning time, but when students are engaged in the learning, they are more likely to retain what they have learned. Students need physical movement while learning. When you observe that students are growing bored, stop your lesson, and find a way to incorporate physical activity. This will help get their blood flowing again.
- **Maintain a Lively Place** – Your attitude matters. Maybe your personality is not to jump around the classroom or on top of desks to engage students. Though, you can still have a lively classroom if it is not already. Showing videos or playing music can help maintain a lively place.
- **Using Electronic Devices** – We live at a time where cell phones and electronic devices are a big part of our lives. As educators, we check our cell phones several times a day for various reasons. Subsequently, we need to understand that we are teaching a generation who is birthed into a reality of technology. They do not know another way to exist. If they have cell phones, use them! Find ways to incorporate them into instruction.
  - Utilize cell phones to look up the definition of vocabulary words. This can be a good resource.
  - Find evidence online to support a claim, for this is another good use of technology.