understanding of the material? What instructional shifts need to be made?

Collaborative groups are effective in turning the learning over to the students. It promotes social/emotional skills, peer coaching, and peer interventions while maintaining the complexity of learning.

Turn the learning over to the rightful recipient. It does not belong to you, but to them.

Teachers are doing all the planning and all the teaching. Sometimes they are the only one engaged in the lesson. At the end of the day, they lug their teacher bags out the building filled with papers to grade. During those times, we discover who understood the task and who did not; but you have no idea which part of the lesson they did or did not understand. However, putting students in groups will not only help students process the content. It will free the teacher to walk around and provide on-the-spot help for students who need it.

## Procedure for Transitioning to a New Subject

Think about your favorite movie. What made it your favorite? It was probably something in the beginning which grabbed you. The suspense kept your attention, while the ending left you feeling satisfied.

Beginning and ending a lesson is the punch line to every movie. Think about it. How a movie begins, just as much as how it ends, matters to the viewers. If the movie starts too slow, viewers will more than likely be disinterested for a while. It takes a big movie twist to regain their interest. It is how the movie ends which will determine whether movie goers love or hate a movie. Have you ever watched a movie which was somewhat decent, but you hated the way the movie ended? It ruins it for you. It is the difference between walking out the movie theater wanting more or feeling like you just wasted 120 minutes of your life. If the beginning is slow, you will more than likely spend the movie trying to become engaged. If the movie has a bad ending, you are probably spending time afterwards trying to remember the movie’s descent moments. However, due to the lack of engagement, you probably will not be able to recall much. Nevertheless, if you watch a great movie, you can probably