# Procedure for How Students Get Class Materials

One day I was sitting in a classroom. The teacher was getting ready to release the students for an interactive activity about the life cycle of a butterfly. She had different types of pasta noodles which represented each of the life cycle phases. She planned for each student to get a paper plate, where she would draw a vertical and horizontal line to make four squares. Then, students would get their pasta noodles and glue them where they went within the cycle. I could tell the teacher had spent a lot of time planning this activity. I also saw her excitement in knowing she had scored high with her students by incorporating a hands-on activity. Then...

When it was time to hand out the materials, the teacher told the students, “Come up and get your activities.” Students began pushing one another, grabbing more than one plate. The pasta shells began to get mixed up and things went downhill from there. However, I will say that eventually things got back on track. The students created their butterfly life cycles. They hung in the hallway beautifully with many admirers passing by. Nevertheless, it took two days to sort this out. This activity took double the instruction time it should have taken. Had the teacher had a procedure for getting materials, it would have gone smoother. The teacher used a lot of instruction time cleaning up the mess, rather than having a procedure in place for the materials.

I have seen this over and over in classrooms. Teachers have a dynamic lesson. Then, once the learning is turned over to the students, what could have been a great lesson turns into one of the worse. So, how can we prevent this?

Above all else, assign a person from each group to get the materials for their team. This will take some upfront planning from the teacher. They will have to already have the materials separated. Therefore, students can get their basket or bag of materials for their group.

Secondly, have all the materials separated in different containers. For instance, have a basket for the scissors, a basket for the paper, and another for the pencils. Then, have a few students come up for materials at a time. Once they sit down, another few students can