- **On Your Mark** – Put all items away except for a pencil or materials which are needed for the temperature check.
- **Get Set** – Students received the materials, getting a table divider if needed. The teacher reiterated the expectation of what students should do during and after the test.
- **Go** – Students began working.

Once the students finished taking the test, the teacher had a “warm up for the next exercise” time. This consisted of turning in the assessment to a basket labeled *temperature checks*. Students began reading the learning target for the next step in the lesson, completing a KWL chart: K - what students already know, W - what students need to know, and L - what I want to know.

Now, this will take intentional planning. Teachers will need to know what is coming next. When students create a KWL chart for the next learning target, it allows the teacher to see what the students already know about the skill. Moreover, it helps identify where to start the next lesson. As a new teacher, you are still learning about standards and learning targets. So, it is perfectly fine to have students get a book and silently read after an assessment. Still, remember that students may only do this for so long. They will get bored and start entertaining themselves. Keep in mind, there may be some slow test takers. This can cause another potential problem of students finishing a book and continuing to get up to get one book after another. If that happens with multiple students at various times, it creates a distraction or disruption for students still testing. The expectation after testing should be to respect others. Give those still testing an opportunity to do their best. Additionally, consider putting a sign which says *Taking a Test* outside of your door. Therefore, other students and staff will be aware of you giving a test and it will help minimize interruptions or distractions.

After an assessment, down time is often wasted instruction time. Having students wait for others causes students to become disengaged and bored in class. Incorporating student KWL charts or prediction maps can maximize instructional time, as opposed to having students read silently. In all honesty, how many students do