# Procedure for How Students Transition to the Carpet

Have you ever been a long car ride with children? They sit in the backseat and get frustrated with each other. At first it sounded like a good idea to take a road trip with children, but you did not take into account: Stop looking at me. Stop touching me. Leave me alone. Well, carpet time is very similar. You have several little people sitting in close proximity. By the end of carpet time, you will be ready to pull your hair out or throw a kid out the window. That is, of course, if you do not establish an expectation at the beginning.

Teachers typically do a read aloud, morning meeting, a reading/math wall, and/or have class discussions on the carpet. It is where teachers can build relationships, set daily goals, review expectations, and enhance classroom culture. We love carpet time. However, it is important to have established procedures in place for transitioning to the carpet, while further establishing procedures which help students be successful during carpet time.

**Always start by stating the expectation:**

“Students, we are getting ready to transition to the carpet for our morning meeting. I know you are ready when your area is clean and neat. Your eyes are on me.”

“Ok, we are ready to move. Table one, please come join me on the carpet for the morning meeting. Table two, please come join us, etc.”

Another method of moving students would be calling on students wearing a red shirt, green shirt, etc. Alternatively, if his or her last name begins with a T, come join everyone on the carpet. These techniques will keep the students attentive.

When you are establishing an expectation for how to come to the carpet, and a student does not meet the intended expectation (i.e., they are running to the carpet, yelling or getting up without permission), then send them back to their seat. Ask them to do it again.

**REMEMBER:** When you do not establish routines, that in itself is establishing routines.