I’m sure you are a rock star teacher and your attendance is great; but creating a substitute kit is still a necessity. Here are a few things that should be included in a substitute kit:

- Simple procedures/routines.
- Your class roster. This should include notes of students with health concerns, behavior concerns, and any special accommodations. (This may also include a list of students who may be pulled out for additional instruction by another teacher.)
- Seating chart.
- Class schedule.
- A universal lesson plan. This is a lesson plan which can be used at any time for any class. This lesson plan is made up of skills you have previously taught the students. These are skills students can practice.
- Safety drill procedures.
- A buddy teacher that can assist, should they have any questions.
- A page to leave notes and feedback for you.

Get a folder and keep all these items in there ahead of time. This guarantees it is always there, should you have an unexpected absence. Then, you can just email one of your teacher buddies or administrator to tell them where the substitute folder is located. Your colleagues will appreciate this pre-planning step from you.

Remember that we can substitute for a teacher but we cannot substitute instruction. When it comes to planning for someone else teaching your students, it should always be from parts of the curriculum which you have previously taught. I am not saying that a substitute cannot teach subject matter, but you are the one with the relationship with your students. Only you know how they learn. You are the one who knows which students need undocumented accommodations. Some information is hard to give to a substitute because it is in your heart. In this case, plan for the surface which will do the least amount of damage.