# What Are Your Classroom Expectations?

Let us now take a look at classroom expectations. You should have a better understanding of your personality and your student's personality; likewise, you should understand what students need according to their personality. Notice that I did not mention classroom rules. Expectations tell the student what they should be doing. Rules, on the other hand, tell students what they should not be doing. We want students to understand and display the expected behavior, instead of working daily trying to avoid unwanted behavior.

**Keep these questions in mind as you create, establish, and/or maintain classroom expectations:**

What are your classroom expectations?

How will you teach them to students?

How will you gauge if students have learned them?

How will you maintain the rules?

Students should know there are learning expectations as soon as they come into the school building. School starts when students get to school, not when the teacher has begun teaching. Remember, it is easier to establish procedures rather than correct unwanted behaviors which negatively impact the classroom environment. Classroom expectations should be laid out on the first day of school, being created with the students. For instance, create expectations that inform students of what to do, as opposed to informing students of what not to do.

**Examples of Classroom Expectations:**

- Enter the classroom ready to learn.
- Be prepared for class.
- Be considerate and respectful of others.
- Turn in all work on time.
- Follow classroom, hall, and school procedures.
- Be on time for school.
- Actively participate in classroom learning.

Classroom expectations must be reviewed consistently. For