This can alternatively be done as part of a routine, where students take ownership of their own attendance and lunch count. If you prefer to give the students ownership, create a lunch chart and change the menu daily. For attendance, create another chart with two columns labeled *present* and *absent*. Place all the students’ names under the *absent* column. As students arrive, they can move their names into the *present* column. Always double-check the names, making sure someone did not mistakenly move the wrong name.

As students are show up, allow them to place their names under the meal which they would like. Next, have him or her do their attendance. While this requires you to create the chart and individually cut out students’ names, that is the most upfront work. Add a Velcro patch or magnet to the back of the name, for this allows students to move their names easily. This also takes a solid procedure which has to be in place. Students come into class, moving their name to the *present* column. They then think about what they want for lunch, moving only their name to the desired meal before going to their seat. The students will need to practice, practice, and practice some more. Over time, this procedure will flow smoothly.

The downside to implementing this particular approach is getting the cafeteria menu before school starts. After all, you are changing it daily on your chart. Most schools know what they are serving by the week or the month; therefore, this may not be as difficult to come by. Nonetheless, be sure to change it daily on your board. The upside to implementing this approach is that it gives students complete ownership, freeing you up to greet students that are coming in the classroom. You can actively monitor students and walk around the class. Furthermore, you can provide assistance to students during morning work; especially if it is filled with skills with which the students are unfamiliar.

Below is a sample of this lunch count chart.

# Lunch Count