# Procedure for Students Transitioning to Other Places Throughout the Building

Every now and then, a student may need to go somewhere in the building alone. This will also require a procedure that will assure students will go where they need to go and return to class afterwards. The teacher is still responsible for a student as long as they are in the school building. This includes when they leave the classroom and travel somewhere in the building. With younger students, it is simple to send a buddy with them. Usually the person at the destination knows they are coming. So, they will be watching for them. But, every now and then, a student will need to travel somewhere in the building alone and unplanned.

When this happens, one recommendation would be to create passes for various places students tend to go. For younger students, put a piece of yarn or other string on the sign that allows the student to wear it comfortably around their necks. This will make it easier for other adults in the hall to see where the student should be going. If you do not like the idea of students wearing it around their necks, then copy the hall pass on bright colored paper which will also make it visible to others in the building. Therefore, they can assist in helping the student get to where they need to be.

When students are traveling to other places in building, we are trusting the student to go where they need to go and return to class afterwards. It is always a good idea to have other eyes in the building assisting with this. For instance, when a student is headed to the office, it’s okay to either get your classroom leader to contact the office, or you contact the office ahead of time. The conversation may go something like, “Hello, I am sending Johnny to the office for ______.” (State the reason). This way, another set of eyes is watching for Johnny as well. They can also notify you when Johnny is returning to your class, if he never showed up, or if he had to go somewhere else in the building.

Several places to which students travel in the building that may require a pass include: