# Displaying Student Work

What must it feel like for most of a child’s school experience to be essentially surrounded by skills they cannot do? Displaying student work should honor and value your student’s accomplishments by either showing a progression toward or the completion of a learning objective.

Confidence is built when challenge meets success and praise is the response. Learning new concepts is not an easy task for children. Showing their progress and success is a form of praise. It is also a way for students to receive praise from their peers, other staff members, and their parents who come to see their work displayed. Children need this praise, especially if they have productively struggled to success. When student work is displayed, it can also show other students samples of correct work. We never know what a child may see that can spark their interest and increase an understanding.

We praise openly and punish privately. Never post a student’s work that needs improvement in an effort to punish a student. Embarrassing or shaming a student never corrects behavior. Instead, it only worsens behavior. Think about how you might feel if your administrator shamed you in a faculty meeting in front of your peers. Be empathetic with children and use grace. Adults and children both have emotions. We all feel in the same way. Think about the personalities of your students, especially your blue students. They will not recover well from shame or guilt. Never choose to be the darkness in a child’s life, when you can be the light.

Be sure to keep all posted student work neat, consistent, and updated. The more student work you post; the more praise a student receives. There is nothing more powerful than what a student believes about himself or herself. Displaying a child’s work communicates that they got something right over and over and over.

It may help to keep a calendar of times when you will post or change new student work. Things will get busy throughout the year, so updating student work you have posted inside or outside your classroom is something which can easily get pushed down the