# Sample Discipline Plan
## Ms. Allen’s Classroom Discipline Plan

**My Classroom Philosophy:** I believe the classroom is a place where students can learn and thrive, while he or she studies new concepts and skills. I believe the classroom is a hub. Students are given the opportunity and space to learn where they are, while growing into what they want to become. My goal is to create a safe, learning environment. All students can take educational risks, and succeed in any challenge. It takes the effort of the entire village - the teacher, the parent, and the student – to create a safe space.

### My Classroom Expectations:
- Enter the classroom ready to learn.
- Be prepared for class.
- Be considerate and respectful of others.
- Turn in all work on time.
- Follow classroom, hall, and school procedures.
- Be on time for school.
- Actively participate in classroom learning.

### Consequences:
Each student will start the day with a green post-it on their desks. If a student IS NOT adhering to classroom expectations:  
1st – I will give the student a tally mark on their post-its, representing a verbal warning.  
2nd – The student will get a second tally mark on their post-it. A verbal counseling is written on the green post-it by the teacher.  
3rd – The green post-it will be replaced with a yellow post-it, which means the student will be sent home with a copy of the verbal warning

### Rewards:
Each student will start the day with a green post-it on their desk. If a student IS adhering to classroom expectations, they will have several opportunities to gain Allen bucks:  
Each time a student is following the classroom’s expectation, the teacher will write a dollar sign on their green post-it. Their money will be added up at the end of the day.  
$ Student arrived and put materials away.