# Procedure for Greeting Students
Many students will walk up to your door. They need love, understanding, a soft touch, or a warm smile. The morning greeting is a great time to fill a child’s love tank.

Every day is a new day, and it should be approached as such. Standing at your door and greeting each student is a reputable way to establish new beginnings. Put your hand on each student’s shoulder and make eye contact, saying something simple like:

“Oh, I see you got a haircut. It looks nice.”

“I would really like for you to be my class leader today.”

“Today is a new day. We’re going to start over.”

While greeting students in the morning, here are other things you may do. Choose what fits your personality, because students are spiritually sensitive. They know when you’re being fake, as do you.

* Come up with a special handshake with the children.
* Hug every child. (For your non-huggers, use a handshake or a compliment.)
* Compliment every student in some way, shape, or form.
* Avoid discussing yesterday’s behavior. Instead, focus on today’s expectation. (Go ahead and put your things away. Get started on the morning work.)
* Use spelling words or math problems you know they can do. This will make them feel successful before they enter into the classroom.

While greeting students, it is important to call them by their name. Always use a child’s name during the morning greeting. Pronounce their names correctly. When I was a teacher, and I had difficulty pronouncing a student’s name, I would put the phonetically correct pronunciation next the student’s name on a clipboard. I would hold myself accountable, ensuring that I was saying a child’s name correctly. Our names mean something. It is how we are identified. Take the time to identify a student correctly, thereby honoring their name.

Moving on, create a How do you feel today? chart. Doing so creates a