# Documenting Student Behavior

Each school usually has a student discipline referral system in place. This document is filled out when teachers send a student to the office for disciplinary reasons. Oftentimes, the referral goes with the students after you write them up and send them to the office. Maybe you will get a copy back, but maybe not. However, you still have to find a way to keep the documentation for yourself. More than likely, you will be meeting with parents during a conference. Therefore, you need this information on hand. Some schools have an online database where you can just print off the information and have it. If this is not the case with your school, keeping a log to document student behavior will suffice. If your school does not have a database or you are unable to get a copy of any discipline referral, using old-fashioned notebook paper and pencil for student notes will help you document this information.

We keep documentation for a number of reasons:

- Parent/teacher conferences.
- Student conferences.
- Documentation when deciding if a student needs to be placed in alternative services.
- Documentation when deciding if a student needs additional services.
- Documentation to show a pattern in student behavior.

When documenting student behavior, there is one thing to keep in mind. We document to find solutions. We want to document to show patterns in order to better support those solutions. Avoid documenting student behavior to prove, shame, or guilt. The goal is never to get students out of our class or away from us. Instead, it is to do what is best for the child. Sometimes, that means getting him or her any additional supports they may need.