One way to do this is by engaging students with simple instructional strategies. Use flash cards:

- Math facts
- Sight words
- Prefixes/suffixes
- Vocabulary

Students can speak in low tones and practice these concepts with a partner. Alternatively, the class leader can walk around and show the students flash cards. Both of these concepts will free you up to monitor the students in the restroom. The goal is to release the responsibility to the students where they will eventually self-monitor and check their own behavior.

## Procedure for When Students Are in the Hallway

The hallway is a sensitive area which is usually filled with staff and students during various times of the day. Several people are going to the restroom, the cafeteria, and anywhere else students need to transition throughout the building. While in the hallway, students need to know the expectation, which is, always to be mindful of what is going on in the classrooms which they are passing by.

I had a teacher who loved for her students to “chant” in the hallway. It was a means of keeping them engaged while transitioning to various places in the building. She would say something, and the students would repeat it. Although the students enjoyed it, and even the students in other classrooms thought it was entertaining, the teachers in those classrooms did not think it was amusing at all. In fact, by the end of the day, I had several complaints in my email about the noise. The complaints ranged from how the noise interrupted students taking spelling tests to teachers had a hard time teaching.

Although this is a true story, that may be a little extreme in discussing hallway procedures. Though, even the less extreme cases were still landing in my email by the end of the day. Basically, what happens in the hallway matters. It has the ability to affect