where the student has to pick up the toilet paper in the bathroom. Alternatively, he or she can work with the janitor in cleaning the bathroom before or after school. This is a way of correcting behavior because he or she does not want to have to clean the bathroom again. They will get an understanding of what it is like to have to clean the bathroom from the janitor’s perspective and hopefully become empathetic of others before making that choice again. If they do not understand the consequence, then increase the days and times that they have to clean.

Now, if a student throws paper towels on the floor, and refuses to pick them up or yells at you in the process, utilize your school’s discipline plan to issue a consequence. This plan is a guide toward how the school chooses to respond to students being disrespectful to staff. Also, get the parents on board as well.

**Refocus:** This is where we turn the learning back over to the students. When talking about refocusing behavior, we want the students to refocus their own behavior. Adults can correct while we let the students refocus. This is the ultimate goal of having a discipline plan. A consequence that is geared toward refocusing behavior is quick and in-the-moment. For instance, if students are getting ready to transition, the teacher may acknowledge or give accolades to those who are following the procedure. The intention in doing so, is for other students who are not following the procedure to refocus after seeing other students getting compliments.

**Reflect:** This is where students self-regulate while reflecting on a consequence they received earlier. Instead of pushing the envelope to get that consequence again, they will reflect, improve their behavior, and make a different decision. For example, a group of students were caught drinking beer in school, which led to an automatic 6-week suspension. When put in that situation again to try beer, one student reflected upon the 6-week consequence and refused to partake again. A reflection consequence is harsher and deeply felt.

Furthermore, we are teaching students coping skills. Not only are we explaining what not to do, but what they should be doing in alignment to your procedures and routines. For instance, telling