comfortable you feel doing this. I encourage you to take someone with you. Doing home visits to touch base with parents can also help with getting a parent involved with discipline.

When developing a classroom discipline plan, make sure it is aligned to the school’s discipline plan. This way, when students have hit the top of your plan, the next consequence should be to start implementing consequences from the school’s discipline plan.

Components of a Classroom Discipline Plan:

- **Your Classroom Philosophy**
  - Your classroom philosophy lays out your beliefs about what creates an effective classroom culture and everyone’s roles in helping to achieve it.
- **Classroom Expectations**
  - Your classroom expectations lay out the expectations that students are expected to follow in order to create a safe learning environment.
- **Consequences**
  - Consequences should lay out what happens if students are not following the classroom’s expectations. It should further explain each punishment’s duration before more intense consequences are implemented.
- **Rewards**
  - Rewards are ways to celebrate students who are following the classroom expectations. If you give out snacks, candy, or anything else which can be consumed, please advise parents. Make sure they are in agreement with any edible items. You do not want to turn a celebration from school into a punishment at home.
- **Teacher Commitment**
  - This should list out what the parent and student can expect from you as the teacher and your part in helping to create a successful learning environment.
- **Student Commitment**