home. What do you do? Better yet, how could this have been prevented? Take a moment to ponder on this. Unfortunately, it is not an uncommon situation.

For a teacher, parent, or administrator - not being able to find a child is the worst feeling ever! It is even more gut wrenching knowing you possibly had something to do with this error. Developing a procedure for dismissal will help prevent these types of circumstances.

**WHEN IN DOUBT, REACH OUT!**

If you are unsure of how a child gets home, always contact the parents before dismissal. Create a “How I Get Home” list and post it in the classroom. This way, it is visible to students as well.

When you send your welcome letter to parents, this may be a good time to ask how their child will be going home. Sometimes, circumstances will arise and parents may have to change how their children get home. However, if a child comes to school and informs you that he or she will be going home differently than usual, confirm this with their parent or guardian.

It will be wise to close instruction about ten minutes before dismissal (you may need more time at the beginning of the year) to give students an opportunity to gather their belongings and prepare for dismissal. This helps you to avoid rushing and paying minimal attention at the end of the day. It will also be wise to allow students to prep for dismissal in sections. For instance, dismissal procedures should permit all students who go home in similar ways to have a designated place in the class such as:

- All students who walk home should get their belongings and sit in one area of the classroom.
- All students who ride the bus should get their belongings and sit together in another area in the classroom.
- All students whose parents pick them up, should get their belongings and sit in another designated area.

Of course this will take practice, but it is vital! Take the time to practice and rehearse. Think about where the designated areas will be in the classroom. It may not require you to rearrange your class,