# Procedure for Classroom Interruptions

Every now and then, there will be a classroom interruption for several reasons:

- Someone comes over the intercom to tell you a student needs to come to the office.
- Someone calls your classroom to get information.
- Someone comes to the door, asking you a quick question.
- A student is sent to your classroom for a timeout.
- Your teacher bestie needs to borrow your small laminator.
- Someone needs paperwork which you forgot to turn in.

We all know this list could go on. A classroom interruption means a break in teaching and learning. Usually, this means you will have to re-engage students and restart your instruction. Depending on how long the interruption is, you may have to reteach the last part of your lesson. Think about this: How long does it take adults to become social with their colleagues when there is a break in a faculty meeting? It does not take long at all. It will not take long for students either, so use this to your advantage. Expecting students not to talk when there is a break in instruction is a battle you will lose every single time. Thus, instead of telling students to be quiet, tell them to talk!

We will dig deeper into collaborative groups next, but I figured this would be a good time to introduce this concept. Students, like adults, need time to process the information they are being taught. This is essential if it is new content. Teachers process information with their colleagues all the time, either by texting during faculty meetings or simply passing a note. They discuss things in the teacher’s lounge, or come to another teacher’s classroom to “let it all out.” It is all a means of processing through something.

When teachers are assigning classroom jobs, students should additionally pick their roles in collaborative groups for the week. This includes: Team leader or facilitator, materials manager, or time keeper. (These roles are broken down next as we discuss