# Procedure for Test Taking

Teachers give formal and informal assessments all the time. Once we teach a concept, we walk around to monitor if students understand it. Hopefully, we make on-the-spot corrections for students when needed. However, giving students an assessment is not just about checking something off the list in your lesson plan nor is it about obtaining another grade for the gradebook. We give assessments to monitor and check for understanding, along with ensuring mastery of the learning target. This is important, because it gives you necessary information. You can either adjust your teaching, identify who needs intervention, or know if it is time to build on the learning. We want to confirm we have procedures in place which allow students to fully concentrate on the assessment. Afterwards, they will have something to do which keeps them from bothering another student who is still taking the test. We want assessment data to be as accurate as possible.

Ms. Mock was a third grade teacher, and a teacher I was sent to observe during my first year of teaching. On the day I visited her class, she happened to be giving an assessment. The students had full ownership during this time. Ms. Mock, meanwhile, was just a facilitator. It was obvious that taking an assessment was routine in her classroom. The students were well aware of the expectation. Ms. Mock began by informing the students that it was “time for a temperature check.” She never said *test*. She conveyed, when the students think they are being *tested*, it sounds final and creates anxiety. Ms. Mock realized student anxiety was impacting their performance on assessments. She realized some of her students knew and understood the content, but still they were declining during a test. Therefore, changing the name calmed students. She further explained to students that a temperature check helped her to make her teaching better. This, too, relieved students’ stress.

Students knew what to do when Ms. Mock announced it was a time for a temperature check. She used a simple three-step process. On your mark, get set, go!