classroom discipline. If you give into a controlling match with a child, either them or you will lose balance. One person falls down but nobody wins. You are either resisting their behavior or they are resisting your discipline. Either way, the concept does not work.

Rebellion and resistance will surface in children when they are unable to suppress the urge to give birth to their true identity. Everything is not a behavioral concern or an issue just because it does not align to the teacher’s personality or preference. We are not changing children with our consequences; we are changing behavior. Instead of trying to make children fit a mode that is comfortable for us, we should seek to understand who they are. Then, get busy loving and supporting them in becoming that.

It takes the relationship with the parent or caregiver in order to keep the balance of the classroom. You and the student’s guardian are in a daily co-parenting relationship. It takes both of you, working together, to create a safe, learning environment for children. Both of you hold students accountable for their behavior.

**Here are some ways to get parents involved:**
- Have your discipline plan and classroom expectations outlined. These should be ready to give to parents during the “Meet the Teacher” night or before school starts. Have a place where you, parents, and students have to sign and acknowledge adherence to the plan. This will be a living document which you can always reference at parent/teacher conferences or meetings.
- Parents, like us, will probably forget most of the things they signed at the beginning of the school year. So, reiterate the classroom discipline plan throughout the year in a newsletter or notes home.
- Parent phone calls are probably one of the most effective ways to make contact with parents or guardians regarding your plan.
- Be visible and creative. When parents drop their students off or pick them up from school, try to touch base with them as much as possible.
- When all else fails, do a home visit. You will have to gauge how