be a good partner to a new student who does not yet have any friends. Meanwhile, a gold student is all about routine and structure. Therefore, he or she may be a good candidate for the materials handler. In this role, they would ensure that all materials are organized and put in their correct places. Be creative with classroom jobs. Some teachers prefer giving every child a job, so that everyone is included. Conversely, some only give a few students jobs while the other students have to earn the right to have a classroom job. It will ultimately be up to you. **Remember:** If you pick the same student every time, this could be perceived as you having “favorites.” In turn, it could have a negative impact on establishing your classroom culture. Some students, because of their personalities, may fit in one job better than others. So, it may be a good idea to allow them to try other jobs. This will stretch them out of their comfort zones, permitting them to try other things. However, the importance of creating a safe classroom allows students to try new things; starting with small things. These will bleed over into greater things such as taking instructional chances. Taking chances without a fear of ridicule from others is a conative skill. It can be reiterated in the morning meeting, while additionally being throughout the day. There is a list of sample classroom jobs on the following page, many of which the teacher can personalize to fit their classroom and students. Some teachers assign small groups of student’s classroom jobs; others prefer to give each student a responsibility task. It is really up to you. Gauge your students’ energy before making this decision. Each classroom is different and unique; therefore, it is up to the teacher to determine how the classroom flows. Students who easily lose interest, or are not engaged in everyday activities, may benefit from a responsibility task. Likewise, they may become more engaged if they have to earn their responsibility task.

## Sample Classroom Jobs:
**Reading Wall Leader** – A student leader assigned to lead the class in the reading wall routine.  
**Math Wall Leader** – He or she will lead the class in the math wall routine.