### Consequences:
post-it. They will need to show this to their parents.  
4th – The student’s yellow post-it will be replaced with a blue post-it. The student will have to fill out a behavior plan, choosing a behavior on which he or she will work.  
5th – The teacher will contact parent for a meeting to discuss behavior and possible shadowing.  
If student refuses to adhere to the classroom expectations or correct their behavior after going through this process, then the student will be sent to the administrator for additional consequences.

### Rewards:
- He or she began working on morning work.  
- $ Student transitioned to various areas throughout the building without incident.  
- $ Student completed all work in class.  
- $ Student participated in collaborative work and whole class discussions.  
- $ Students adhered to all classroom and school expectations.

### Teacher Commitments:
**I will do my personal best to:**  
- Create a safe and caring learning environment for all students.  
- Acknowledge the individual strengths of each student. Provide an equitable learning experience.  
- Establish high expectations for all students.  
- Keep the parent and student consistently informed of academic progress.  
- Assign appropriate grade-level homework with resources.  
- Provide an equitable learning experience for all students which promotes academic growth.

### Student Commitments:
**I will do my personal best to:**  
- Put forth my best effort to be successful in school.  
- Complete my school and homework assignments.  
- Work with my teacher in helping to create a safe learning environment.  
- Attend school each day.  
- Adhere to all school and classroom expectations.  
- Respect the learning in the classroom at all times.

### Parent Commitments:
**I will do my personal best to:**  
- Work with my child to complete his or her homework assignments.  
- Ensure my child is at school on time.  
- Partner with my child’s teacher in helping to create a safe, learning environment.