**Time Keeper** – This student keeps time during collaborative group work or anything which requires time to be taken.

**Line Leader** – This student leads the line during classroom transitions.

**Hall Monitor** – He or she is assigned to monitor other students, ensuring they are following classroom expectations while in the hallway.

**Trash Collector** – One or more students, who will be tasked with guaranteeing the classroom is cleaned and all trash is off the floor.

**Teacher Assistant** – He or she assists the teacher in classroom tasks.

**Pledge Leader** – He or she leads the class in the pledge of allegiance or additional classroom announcements.

**Electrician** – One or more students who will make certain the lights are turned on and off upon leaving or entering the classroom.

**Door Holder** – He or she holds the door open when students are entering or leaving a designated area.

**New Student Buddy** – One or more students who partner with a new student, helping them get acclimated to their new classroom.

**Pencil Sharpener** – This student sharpens pencils for students when it’s needed.

**Materials Manager** – One or more students who will get the materials for the group during collaborative group work.

**Bathroom Monitor** – These students monitor that classmates are following the expectations while they are taking a restroom break.

**Caboose** – This student walks at the back of the line as the class transitions to different areas throughout the building. You will find that the back of the line is a popular place for students.

**Mailman** – He or she delivers mail or paperwork to other places in the building: the office, the counselor, cafeteria, other classrooms, etc.

Not only are classroom jobs a good idea but having a procedure for assigning classroom jobs is important.

**Remember:** The strategy will only be as effective as the procedure. Explain each classroom job’s expectation to students before