# Establishing Rewards/Consequences

Rewards are just as important as consequences. When I was in the classroom, my very smart school counselor gave me the egg crate idea. Here you and the students come up with five rewards and five consequences. Use two sets of egg crates, labeling one *rewards* and the other *consequences*. Put each reward or consequence on a different piece of paper. Ball it up and put in the egg crate with its label. If the student needs a reward, use the reward egg crate by shaking it up. Have the student select a balled-up piece of paper. Likewise, do the same with consequences. This promotes student autonomy and ownership.

Never make idle threats, but rather state what you can and intend to do. It does not take long for students to catch onto your routines and habits. They will know early on how much rope you will give them.

For those students who need instant gratification, using post-it notes is a simple way to provide an instant reward or consequence. Put a post-it on each student’s desk (the same color). When students are adhering to the expectation, put a mark or dollar sign ($). This is an instant reward for students. When students are not adhering to the expectation, put a tally mark. It represents that they need to refocus. If you put a dollar sign, then at the end of the day, students can add up their dollar signs and convert it to money they can spend at your classroom store. This does not mean that you have to spend a bunch of money on items for your store. Reach out to surrounding businesses to see if they can donate items. Also, ask parents to donate inexpensive items or use social media. Ask friends and family to donate to your classroom store as well.

When thinking about consequences for students, always ensure that you have given students opportunities to turn the unwanted behavior around. If they do, either erase or cross out a tally mark. A consequence should never be a one-and-done response. Also, when establishing consequences, try to handle as much as you can in the classroom. Once you give the power away to someone else to issue these consequences, it is a challenge to get the power back.

If you would like to turn the ownership over to students, have a list of