# The Power of Relationships

After years of being a teacher, an instructional coach, and principal, I have found what continues to matter most is the power of relationships. Whether it is a student-to-teacher, teacher-to-teacher, parent-to-teacher, or teacher-to-administrator relationship, they are all important. All are involved in the progression of creating a healthy learning environment. I firmly believe it is difficult to discipline a student with whom you do not have a relationship. It does not come over as love-discipline, but rather as resentment-discipline. The difference is: love-discipline filters through a child as correction. Resentment-discipline filters through a child as dislike and contentment, which will not change or correct behavior. Likewise, it can often produce other unwanted behaviors.

As a principal, it never failed that I would frustrate a teacher every day. They wanted me to make students disappear in order to make their job easier. In turn, the students were met with disappointment and anger when they reappeared in the classroom. The scenario changed, but the root of the issue remained the same. I listened. They need you to listen. Behind every negative behavior is a negative feeling that is more than likely derived from a negative life experience. What is it? Where did it come from? You can either help with the healing or become what they need to be healed from.

Take Johnny, for instance; a student I got to know very well. He spent more time in my office than he did in his classroom. Every morning, someone was yelling or fussing at Johnny for some odd reason. He was a kid that would tug on your heart and nerves at the same time. He was the kid that you loved but wanted to throw out the window at the same time. Still, I listened to Johnny very often. His mother was working two jobs; tired and frustrated. One morning, while I was standing outside greeting students as their parents dropped them off, I could hear Johnny’s mom cussing and fussing at him. Getting out of the car, he slammed the door behind him. Johnny pushed past other students and threw himself against the cafeteria wall. As he approached the cafeteria workers, they asked if wanted eggs or cereal. Still upset, Johnny answered “cereal” very softly. The