collaborative groups). When there is an interruption, simply say, Okay, turn to your table group . (The classroom will need to be set up for collaborative groups.) Discuss with your team what you understand, as well as some things you may still have questions about. This routine will likely have to be practiced several times, though the team leader is responsible for keeping students focused on the task. So, they should avoid discussing other things. Upon returning your focus to the classroom, ask a few groups to share what they discussed about the learning; this will prevent them from assuming that was wasted time. If you do not ask students to share after giving them a directive, then they will catch on to this being a filler strategy. The students will eventually start talking about non-related things without the accountability of having to do the expectation.

**Remember:** You should never expect what you do not inspect.

Most interruptions should not last longer than a few minutes; still, this time can be focused on instruction. Two minutes can be a long time.

## Procedure for Students Working in Collaborative Groups

Think about your time in a faculty meeting, a professional development, or a college course. Consider a class where the teacher did all the talking or lecturing. How much did you learn or retain?

When I was in school, my teachers used the “drill and kill” method of teaching. Morning work consisted of a page with fifty multiplication facts. We had to get these correct in order to move to the next level of multiplication. It was the same with reading. By the time we graduated high school, we went off to college with information committed to memory. Although there is a place for memorization and recall, we also went off to college without knowing how to use the information which we memorized.

I have found that many teachers are afraid of getting out of their comfort zone. Teachers tend to believe they are the holder of all knowledge. They believe classroom management consists of keeping ultimate control in the classroom. Their voice is the only one