he could not understand why the content was so hard for them. After all, it was so easy for him.

When starting a new lesson, keep in mind the bite-sized pieces are important. These will determine a lesson’s success or failure. As the lesson is ending, consider what happens when you are finished eating dinner. Once you finish chewing, you decide if you can eat anything else and sit for a while. Do not overstuff students. End the lesson with a closure which helps students digest information. This is similar to giving them water, which flushes down what they have been chewing.

Moreover, always think back to the learning objective. Was the expected outcome accomplished? Could the students produce evidence they understood the learning objective? When concluding a lesson, a teacher should use closure activities which will check for student’s understanding or misunderstanding.

Closure Activities:

- **Quick Check** – This is a two to three sentence summary of what they know about the learning objective.
- **Temperature Check** – Using a scale ranging from one to four, have students chart their level of understanding by making a tally mark. Create this on chart paper or regular paper. Put it on the back of the door, so that other students will not be able to see the responses. They can mark their responses on their way out of the class. Then, view the data before starting the next day’s lesson. It provides an opportunity to either address misunderstandings, reteach, or review information.

| Tally | Description |
|-------|-------------|
| `12` | 1 = I do not understand. |
| `|| |||` | 2 = I somewhat understand. |
| `| |` | 3 = I understand the objective. |
| `34` | 4 = I understand and can teach others. |

- **Exit Ticket** – There are several ways to give students an exit ticket. One way can be to stand at the door. Ask students to