# Procedure for Engaging Students

My high school math teacher had the same teaching routine each day. She would have us turn to whatever page in the textbook from which she was teaching, go to the blackboard and show us how to work out the math problems. Then, she released us to do them on our own. The problem is, geometry did not make any sense to me. When I told her that, she would just work out another math problem and told me to pay attention that time. Well, I was paying attention, but still not making any connection with how she was teaching it. That is not to say she was a bad teacher. Instead, it just means that she had one way of teaching. We were expected to gravitate toward her teaching style, rather than her gravitating toward our learning style. This is not an uncommon practice. Even today, after walking through hundreds of classrooms, I still see this style of teaching. As teachers, we tend to think we hold all the knowledge. We think we have been sent by God to impart this knowledge into children, without any consideration of how they learn or what they already know. So we just want students to sit down, be quiet, and let us teach them something! However, even if students are sitting quiet, when they are not engaged or hooked into the lesson, they are not learning.

So, how can we engage students in learning? How do we get students to interact and engage with the content?

There are several instructional strategies to use, all which help students become engaged in instruction:

- Putting students into a group provides opportunities for taking turns and talking. Peer interventions are powerful. **USE THEM!** Students are going to talk with or without your permission, therefore you might as well intentionally plan for it. It is hard for us adults to sit still for hours without talking. We cannot just listen to lectures. It is also hard for children as well, especially the social media and gaming generation.
- **Academic Games** – Learning can be fun. Preparing academic games can take quite a bit of upfront planning for teachers.