## Understanding

Imagine that you have just finished teaching your academic standard for a week. It is Friday, and you are ready to give an assessment which checks for students’ success. You discover that half of your students scored low. What do you do? Well, many teachers will go back and reteach the whole lesson again. Meanwhile, some may only assume that students understood everything, with exception to the few questions they missed. This is an okay assumption if all the students missed the same question. You can assume that the students did not have a clear understanding of that part of the standard. But what would you do if they all missed different questions? You would have to teach everything over, thereby filling the learning gap or analyzing their work to find the learning gap. However, you will be able to make corrections in the moment if you are actively monitoring students during the lesson.

Monitoring for understanding is an important part of not only classroom management, but also effective learning. Of course teachers should be monitoring for adherence to procedure and routines. They should further be ensuring students are safe. Nonetheless, teachers should be monitoring and checking for understanding of the learning objective. This will allow the teacher to perform on-the-spot rapid interventions for students who are showing a lack of understanding.

**REMEMBER:** IT IS BETTER TO INTERVENE RATHER THAN RETEACH! Monitoring is an active process which goes beyond teachers just walking around the classroom.

Monitoring for learning gives you the opportunity to check for evidence which shows how students are grasping the learning concept. In order to do this, each student needs to produce something. There is nothing wrong with you asking students to popcorn out answers. You ask questions, but at the same time, think about how you will confirm ALL students understand the learning expectation. Many teachers tend to write a lesson plan, teaching it for a few days. Then, they give the students a test to determine who may or may not have understood the material. There is nothing wrong with that setup, but let me ask you a question: After you