# Classroom Discipline Plan

Our classroom discipline plan governs how students are expected to behave in class, as well as what will happen when they are not following those expectations. It is important for teachers to understand that parents should be informed of how the class will be governed and their role in the matter. If you are teaching in a school where the demographics are different than what you are accustomed to, reach out to your mentor or administrator for assistance. Misbehavior looks different across cultures.

I will encourage you to reflect back to the True Colors Personality Test while developing your classroom discipline plan. First, start with who you are. Start with knowing your personality and then other personalities as well. You may find that you tend to mesh easily with some personalities and conflict with others. I say that because a classroom full of children is bound to find your trigger at some point. I say that because you may be more willing to discipline a color you do not bond with while giving grace to personality colors you get along with. Therefore, you will need to be certain that you are not reacting out of frustration and anger when disciplining or correcting student behavior. Students will be the first to notice and feel the inequity of discipline in a classroom. Creating a discipline plan is a way to govern you as well. I can absolutely promise you that, at some point in the classroom, a child will discover any, if not all, the suppressed stuff you have not dealt with. They will dig it up and use it against you. During this time, you have to be careful that you are not disciplining students out of being triggered.

The goal of discipline is to correct, refocus, or reflect. Let’s break down these areas.

**Correct:** When giving students a consequence for his or her actions, we communicate to them that, every choice they make is followed by consequences. Those consequences are either positive or negative, but there will be consequences. When establishing a consequence, ensure that it is relatable to the choice the student made. For instance, if a student goes into the bathroom and throws toilet paper on the floor or puts an influx of it in the stool, issue a consequence to