several classrooms. Establishing hallway procedures begins in the classrooms before the students enter the hallway. Students should know the expectation before they leave the classroom. Some simple procedures while in the hallway can consist of students:

- Respecting the learning in other classrooms by keeping their voice levels low.
- Going straight to their destination and back to the classroom.
- Avoid running, yelling, or bothering other classroom doors while in the hallway.

## LET THE SIGNS DO THE TALKING !

You can thank one of my former teachers for this next idea. When she was a first-year teacher, getting students to walk in the hall with low tones was difficult for her. She had a hard time transporting twenty-five kindergartners to music, PE, lunch, recess, or the restroom. When she finally managed to get students somewhere, the hard process started all over when it was time for them to return to class. The only thing she knew to do was yell and scream at students. Everyone in the building knew when her class was in the hallway. After working with her for a while, we began implementing signs to promote silence. These signs can also be used when students are working in class during centers or at other times in the classroom. Moreover, you can use the signs while working with a group or providing an intervention for other students.

- Quiet, Please
- Getting Noisy
- Move Forward
- It’s Time to Transition

These signs can be used in or outside of the classroom. Copy onto cardstock. Laminate, and glue onto popsicle sticks for its most