addressed. Sometimes making positive phone calls to parents will help develop an effective relationship. If a teacher only calls when there is a problem with a child, then as soon as the parent sees your phone number, they are already preparing a defense. They are already approaching a situation guarded. Calling parents about wanted and unwanted behavior can curve a parent’s defensive reaction. Therefore, help them put their guards down, because they do not know why you are calling.

* Listen. When a parent does not express interest toward developing a relationship with you, ask why. Listen with an open mind. You may hear the loophole you need to address. Sometimes parents did not have a good experience in school and that experience is bleeding over into their child’s educational experience.
* Get your administrator involved. If a child’s behavior ensues, then keeping good documentation of parent communication (or attempts to communicate) will be favorable toward you when it is time for administrators to become involved.
* It is okay to ask the parents for advice. Yes, it is your classroom, but remember that it is a co-parenting relationship. Getting input from the other parents is necessary and encouraged. There is someone else in this child’s life who knows the student just as well as you do, if not better. Therefore, they can provide insight in an area where you may be struggling with the student.

In no way am I telling you to accept mistreatment or abuse from a parent. There may be times where you find that, no matter how hard you work at trying to develop a good partnership with a parent, it may be challenging. When this happens, continue to communicate well on your part. Start with the positive and give the information. If it begins to get irate or you feel threatened in any way, inform your administrator. Request that they be a part of future communications after you have exhausted all other attempts.

## Security and Safety Drills