# Procedure for an Early Dismissal

There are many reasons for an early dismissal. Maybe a student is being checked out early, has gotten sick, or there is a huge snowstorm. In any case, school is being dismissed early! Therefore, establishing this procedure keeps you from interrupting your day with anything unexpected. As a principal, my gold teachers and I would often clash when students were called to the office for an early dismissal. They were always flustered with early dismissals. After all, they had already planned and structured their whole day without accounting for any interruptions. Gold teachers have to do what they had planned; otherwise, it throws off their day. So, once they were informed a student was leaving early, the office personnel would be in the front office waiting for the student. After a while had passed, we were wondering what was taking the student so long. The parent was frustrated and office personnel was confused. This was partly due to the teacher ensuring the student had everything which the teacher had planned for the rest of the day. Doing his or her schoolwork the next day was not an option, since they had a whole new plan for the next day.

This could have been eliminated, however, if the teacher had a set procedure in place regarding early dismissal. It would have kept the office from calling the classroom several times or having to calm a frustrated parent.

## Suggestions:

- Plan with the end in mind. For instance, assume every student will leave early. Hand out homework at the beginning, instead of the end of class. (This means the teacher has to already have a plan for homework. He or she cannot make it up in class.)

- If the teacher teaches a lesson, but decides to give students more opportunities for practice at home, then allow students leaving early to get this practice the following day. They can complete their work during center time or an alternate time while in the classroom. At all costs, please avoid using recess as a time to make up work. Students need physical activity. It is