# Procedure for Students Taking Restroom Breaks

When students need to go to the restroom, alone or with the class, it gives them time to take a break from learning. During this time, they will be able to socialize with their friends. For the girls, this will be a time to congregate and chat in front of the mirrors. For boys, this will be a time to ball up paper towels after drying their hands and play a little paper towel basketball with the trashcan being the “hoop”. Maybe they will pick it up and put it in the trash if they miss the can, or maybe they will walk out the bathroom and leave the trash on the floor before getting back in line.

Have a quick procedure in place, such as:

- Use it – Go in the restroom and do your business.
- Lose it – Lose the germs by washing your hands.
- Excuse it – Excuse yourself from the restroom by getting back in line.

This procedure will have to be practiced for a while in the beginning, but once the procedure is in place, time should speed up during the restroom breaks. If students are doing anything else other than this, they should be referred back to the procedure. Several times I have seen teachers take twenty to thirty minutes trying to get the students through a restroom break. If we do that twice a day and five days a week, then that is five hours of instructional time being used in the restroom.

To offset down time during a restroom break, refer back to classroom jobs. Assign a bathroom monitor. They will be responsible for ensuring each student is following the bathroom procedure or reporting it to the teacher when someone is not.

Sometimes it can also be a challenge keeping students engaged while at the restroom. Think about what students are doing when they come out of the restroom. Basically, they are expected to sit (or stand) and wait for other students. How can you avoid students getting loud in the hallway or interrupting other classes?