handing you paperwork while you are trying to get school started. Conversely, they hand you paperwork in the middle of teaching. As I stated before, baskets are your friend. It is a good way to keep materials, as well as other things, organized in the classroom.

Some schools use a grading portal which alerts parents when grades are inputted or any assignments missing. Alternatively, it keeps you from manually having to alert them.

Once students put away their things, they should grab their morning work and complete it.

Morning work should be engaging. It involves a skill to which students have already been exposed and can do independently. That is, of course, unless you are teaching a new skill and using morning work to gauge what the students already know. If so, you would put the disclaimer out to students that it is a new concept. And, you are trying to see what they already know about it. This will help you prevent any instructional frustration. Morning work typically lasts about ten to fifteen minutes. Take attendance, lunch count, or put learning objectives on the board while students are working. This provides you extra time if were too busy before school started.

Avoid using any materials unrelated to academic standards for morning work. After all, it needs to be purposeful and engaging. The expectation should involve learning as students enter the classroom! It will be tough to get students to transition into learning if you start the day with games, busy work, or non-related academic skills. However, the transition into another learning task will flow much smoother if learning happens when students first walk into the classroom.

When morning work consists of skills students can do independently, it should not last for an extended period of time. Overall, this avoids students from becoming bored. Students will entertain themselves when they get bored. You do not want to create a position where students now need to be redirected and re-engaged into learning. This will not be a pleasant way to start your day.

**Procedure for Where Students Sit**  
I have seen several teachers, while working as a principal, that have