students to be quiet during the test is one thing; however, telling students to be respectful of others testing by keeping their voices at a level zero is another thing. When disciplining, refer back to the expectation. Avoid putting a big emphasis on the behavior. One says you are not following the classroom expectations, while the other says you are a bad person.

**Remember:** Disciplining a child with whom you do not have a relationship does not result in correction but condemnation. When a child feels condemned, it will take three times the energy to redirect him than it would if you had a positive relationship with him or her in the beginning. Over-discipline (what we tend to do when we are triggered) results in a child operating in fear, which is not effective. Operating in fear can cause children to act out with other behaviors, because they are not self-regulating, but YOU-regulating (they fear you and not the consequence). And if a child is doing the desired behavior, reward him. It will kill the culture of your classroom to only focus on unwanted behavior. If that is the only attention your students will get, then they will gladly give you more of it.

**Things to stay away from when disciplining students:**
- Food (You cannot have snack time.)
- Literature (Go read by yourself because you got in trouble.)
- Writing (Write a hundred sentences of the same thing.)
- Academics (Complete fifty math problems.)

These things are ineffective. Usually, they will not result in correcting behavior but instead resort to fear and anger. Sometimes it is not a consequence telling students to read when they are in trouble, especially if they enjoy reading. Be careful not to discipline yourself in an effort to discipline a child.

Did you ever play the resistance game as a child? You and another person would face one another, your hands pressed against each other’s hands. Meanwhile, you are trying to resist that person from falling into your space with all your energy. You do this until you are tired, and eventually one person will give in to the other. This resulted in one person losing their balance. This is the same with