**After taking the True Colors Personality Test:**  
Write down your personality color.  
How do you see yourself?  
How do you think others might perceive you?  
Which personality color would be the least challenging with which you could teach or work? Why?  
Which personality color would be the most challenging with which you could teach or work? Why?  
How could you maintain a good relationship with the oranges?  
The blues?  
The greens?  
The golds?  
What do you want to tell others about your personality?  
Think about your answers for a minute. Think about the people closest to you. Does this align with anything they have ever told you?  
Now, take a minute to think about your triggers. Identify the thing(s) making you feel powerless, afraid, frustrated, and/or angry. Write it down; find out why. Own it and be aware of it. This empowers you to maintain self-control when someone pushes that trigger.  

Deal with yourself and who you are. For every issue you have suppressed, there is a student waiting to revive it, trigger it, or test it. We have to be self-aware when working with children. They are like sponges who will soak up many things, including your pain. Unresolved issues make you a walking trigger which enables you to cause pain to yourself and damage others, especially children.  

When we attempt to force children into becoming what we want them to be, it creates conflict inside them. There’s a spirit inside each of us that is constantly pulling and tugging at us to become who we are.  

My first few years as a teacher, I tried to force my students to fit into a classroom mold generally designed and created for my own comfort. Having them get up and move around created anxiety. Essentially I thought the classroom would quickly turn to chaos when the students got out of their seats. Allowing the students to work in