*please do not answer for another student. Keep working.* Afterwards, designate a student leader to take the attendance to the office. Taking attendance may last longer at the beginning of the year since you are getting to know your students; although, it goes fairly quickly when you start to put names with faces.

Now, let me add a disclaimer regarding taking attendance:

A student’s name is important. It is their identity. Yes, it matters not only if you know your student’s name, but how to pronounce your student’s name. There may be times when you might not know the correct pronunciation of a name. In cases such as these, here are some strategies to help you:

- **Ask.** Simply asking either the parents or student how to pronounce the name is among the most effective and easiest strategies. It can establish a good relationship. Essentially it lets the parents know you want to pronounce their child’s name correctly. This may lead to the parent giving you grace in the chance you mispronounce the name, because they will be aware of your intent to say it properly.
- **Practice.** Put the phonetic spelling of the student’s name next to their real name on your classroom roster. Therefore, you can practice saying it until you get it right.
- **Inquire.** If the student attended the school last year, go to his/her former teacher. Ask how to pronounce the student’s name. Take time to inquire about any strategies they may have used to help with its correct pronunciation.

**This matters!**

When taking a lunch count, again start with the expectation:

“For lunch today, we are having cheese enchiladas or chicken salads. Silently raise your hand if you would like cheese enchiladas. (Count). Raise your hand if you would like a chicken salad. (Count). Raise your hand if you brought your lunch. (Count).” Then, designate a student leader to take the lunch count to the cafeteria.

Simple enough, right?