another enough to explore the concept.

Now, you may be asking yourself what this has to do with school and contacting parents. Well, it has everything to do with it, since parents and teachers have a co-parenting relationship. You both need one another in order to give the child what he or she deserves. We do not contact parents simply to tell on a child or to threaten children with the possibility of being reared when they get home. We contact parents, because we share a child with them. We value their input and need their expertise. Consistent, effective communication with a parent helps develop a trusting relationship.

It is easy to get into a mindset where you, as the teacher, are giving the child something more valuable than the parent (and vice versa). Still, what both of you are offering the child complement one another. By a co-parenting relationship, I simply mean you are both equally responsible in assuring the child has what he or she needs. Likewise, you both need one another in order to make it happen. This comes through communication.

Now, I will have an honest moment here. We know that the goal and most effective way to function is for you and the child’s care taker to work as a united front on the child’s behalf. Nevertheless, sometimes this task will be much more daunting than it is at other times. There will be times where it is difficult attempting to have a functional co-parenting relationship with the other parent. The thing to keep in mind, however, is that you must have consistency and communication.

Here are some recommendations:

- Continue to communicate with the parent as much as possible, since you need their partnership in caring for the child.
- If you have to make a behavioral call, always start with the positive first. You may have to dig a little deeper in some cases, but take the dive. Every child has a positive.
- Keep good documentation, not so much for a “gotcha” or competition, but to keep the parents informed of the amount of attempts you have made in trying to form a partnership.
- Avoid only calling when there is a behavior needing to be