allowed students coming into the classroom to choose where they sit on the first day of school. As expected, all the students chose their friends. And so, there was an issue with chattiness from the first day of school.

Having a seating arrangement for students can help with this. Putting the student’s names on desks is more than just organizing a classroom for learning. It makes children feel a sense of belonging as when they walk into the classroom. As you have been expecting them, it is a way of saying welcome. There is no way for you to know how children will interact with one another. Despite this, if there are students appearing to be disruptive with each other, then make changes quickly. Though, be careful with singling children out. Get a feel of the classroom for the first few weeks, while rearranging seating arrangements when necessary.

Moreover, it is a good idea to shift students around for several reasons. It gives students opportunities to collaborate with others and work with other students. Children take less time than adults to meet and interact with others, so spice things up a bit. Moving students around at the end of a quarter, every two weeks, or at the beginning of every month are all good times. Another benefit is that it can constantly feel like a new classroom. Overall, this gives you time, space, and opportunity to maintain order and structure in the classroom.

***Please make sure you spell students name correctly. Having names on the desk is a form of greeting; therefore, make the first impression of saying “Welcome to my class!” a positive one!

**Procedure for Taking Attendance and Lunch Count**  
Do not spend too much time on this task! Take attendance and lunch count while students are doing their morning work. Utilizing this time will help you avoid using additional instruction time.

While taking attendance, though, always state the expectation before you begin the task:  
“When I call your name, say ‘here’ or ‘present.’ If I do not call your name,