- mainly due to my lack of classroom procedures.  
In my first year of teaching, I learned when students do not have procedures or routines, they will create their own. Effective classroom management keeps students safe in the classroom and allows the teacher to maximize instruction time. Procedures also maintain structure and organization. It is not impossible to establish effective procedures and routines; that was just my first year experience. Teaching students the classroom procedures and routines, is one of the first lessons you will teach!

Before we meet our children, we must first meet ourselves. Who you are will travel into any room, any career, any relationship, and any classroom! Being aware of who you are empowers you with the knowledge of how to respond to others. It makes it easier to settle conflicts, while having the insight to be able to relate to others. We reject what we do not understand; but tend to accept and become more settled when we do understand. Knowing and understanding ourselves will affect how we see and understand others. As educators, we want to be careful not to seek to change our students in order to fit our personality comfort. Instead, we should value who they are while empowering them on their level. We can only do this after we have first discovered and accepted ourselves.  
We all have a unique and different personality. There are several personality tests from which we can choose, all of which outline our personality’s behaviors and characteristics. Nonetheless, I have chosen to explore the True Colors Personality Test with you. This particular personality test attempts to identify various personality