made for each school. However, the universal speech typically goes something like:

- Please stand for the pledge of allegiance.
- Attention; salute; pledge. (Say the pledge.)
- Salute the state’s flag. (Say the pledge.)
- Let us have a moment of silence. (Normally this is a minute or less.)
- Then, the announcer may go onto give school-related announcements.

Pretty cool, right? So why would something this simple be in this book? Well, I am going to answer that question with another question. Do you expect the students to just stand up, participate in the morning announcements, sit back down, and finish working? Of course you do... and they can. In fact, they will, but not without a procedure in place! Again, always start with the expectation. “When the morning announcements come on, put your pencils down. Stand up, push your chairs in, and follow the announcer’s directions.” **Remember:** You must teach students the expectation. Practice this expectation before you hold them accountable for it. I can assure you that students will not show up to your classroom automatically knowing how to do this. They must be taught how to do that in which what you are expecting.

## Procedure for Assigning Classroom Jobs
These jobs essentially involve students and are aimed in helping them maintain the classroom’s procedures and routines. Allowing students to take on some of the classroom responsibilities will free up the teacher to do other tasks. Refer back to your true colors personality assessment. Which students would be a good fit in these jobs? A blue student, who is a little more sensitive, would be a good candidate for showing a new student around the school. They would