Before beginning this next section, let me first ask some clarifying questions:

Think of a model classroom, where learning is taking place and students are being successful.

What does that classroom look like?

How is that classroom arranged?

What is the teacher doing?

What are the students doing?

Take a moment to reflect on these questions.

Write down your answers.

Now, let us explore what needs to occur in order for you to create an ideal learning environment. Your classroom vision will be important as you begin to ruminate about procedures and routines.

A common mistake most teachers make is thinking they do not need to teach something that students should already know. Thinking that students “should know” certain things will not bring them any closer to knowing it. Thinking that children should behave as they do at home does not mean you can skip over teaching procedures and routines. Basically, it boils down to what your classroom vision entails. Know how to make it come to pass. Furthermore, know who will be involved in the process. For several reasons, I can assure you students may not emulate the same behavior at school as they do at home: They do not have to share a space with twenty other people their age; they do not have to get in line to transition everywhere they need to go; and, they do not have to transition from learning one subject to the next.

It will be a challenge to teach anything else, should you not take the time to teach procedures. If you do not teach procedures at the beginning, then you will redirect behavior all year. The choice is simple: Establish procedures and routines or redirect behavior.

If you are spending more time redirecting and/or correcting unwanted behavior, that is a sign that classroom procedures need to be taught. If they have already been taught, then they may need to be retaught.