analyze the test data, how do you know which part the student did not understand? Although an assessment tells us if a student was able to regurgitate the information you gave him or her, it does not tell us what is hindering their understanding. Teachers discover this by asking the students to produce evidence, and then actively monitors what the students are doing in the moment.

Having students produce evidence can be accomplished by giving short, quick and formative assessments during instruction. More informal ways of doing a formative assessment during instruction are simple checks such as:

Thumbs up/thumbs down. (Thumbs up if you agree; thumbs down if you do not.)

Stand up/sit down. (Stand up if think it is A. Sit down if you think it is B.)

Using whiteboards to have students produce evidence. (Ask a question. Have students show evidence of their thinking. Have him or her hold up their answers on a whiteboard). If you do not have whiteboards in class, simply put white card stock in a sheet protector. Tadaaa! You have a whiteboard!

After asking students to pick their answers, always ask them to justify their thinking. This informs you of how they are processing the information.

Other ways to conduct a formative assessment may involve a little more planning upfront. It includes using technology, such as various programs like poll everywhere or Kahoot. Using these programs require the questions to be entered ahead of time, while every student must produce an answer. The teacher and class are given information instantly. The teacher, meanwhile, can determine if something in the lesson needs to be retaught or if the class is ready to move forward. Doing so allows for teachers to maximize instruction time rather than finding out about days later. Therefore, they know whether a concept needs to be retaught before moving onto the next lesson.

## Procedure for Students Asking and/or Answering