the teacher is teaching at which times. It aids them when they are conducting observations or walk-throughs and want to observe a particular subject. When this happens, it may be beneficial to post a schedule outside and inside of the classroom; one for the administrator and one for the students. This way, the students can also be aware of the classroom routine and daily learning expectation(s).

## Cell Phones and Other Technology

As previously stated, we are teaching a generation of students who do not know any other way of living except with technology. Telling students to put away their cell phones is equivalent to telling the previous generation to put away their paper and pencils. The issue is not that the students have cell phones or other devices. Instead, the issue is what they are doing (or not doing) during class time. We do not want the devices to distract students from learning, so allow students to use them! Still, have procedures in place to prevent any distractions.

Most schools will have a technology plan. Your mentor or principal will know where you can access a copy. It will be important for you to know and understand it. If students must have parent permission to use technology, this will be important for you to know. Establish your classroom technology plan around the school’s technology plan.

As far as cell phones, I have seen teachers have a designated place in their classrooms where students could put their cell phones upon coming into class. It may be a basket, a plastic shoe rack (probably the most common), or the teacher’s desk (not recommended). The teacher may have several confidential items on their desk. Students should not see graded papers, signed information, parent contact information, etc. Maybe that was just me, but still, I would recommend minimizing student traffic around the teacher’s desk.

On the contrary, how do you make sure all students put their cell phones in one place? If this is a hassle you would rather not deal with, you can always find a way to incorporate cell phone usage into instruction. For instance, cell phones can be a good resource to use when looking up vocabulary words or claim evidence. It will totally be