- **Facilitator** – The group leader who makes sure everyone contributes to the learning while staying focused on the task.
- **Time Keeper** – The time keeper prevents the team from not going under or over the assigned time. He or she utilizes time in a productive manner. They may say, “We only have ten minutes left and have spent enough time doing this. We need to move on to...”
- **Materials Manager** – The materials manager guarantees the group has all the required materials to successfully do the expected task.
- **Recorder** – The recorder captures the group’s thinking.
- **Reporter** – The reporter verbalizes the overall perspectives for the group.

You would not assign these roles without explaining each role’s expectation(s). Groups are typically made up of four to five people. The goal is the ensure that everyone contributes to the learning by assigning everyone an accountability role.

Another concept to teach concerning collaborative groups is to confirm conative skills are taught and in place. Conative skills determine how students act upon their thoughts and feelings. During collaborative groups, students may disagree with one another. In fact, you want them to have a healthy debate in order to promote higher order thinking skills. One way to reinforce conative skills is to let students know that the classroom space is a safe space. Here they can make mistakes and disagree in a non-judgmental zone. This cannot be taught in one setting. It is consistently reinforced throughout the year through redirecting and accountability; redirecting behavior does not align to this expectation; and holding students accountable when they are not displaying conative skills. Moreover, it holds yourself accountable when you may be having a bad day and not displaying conative skills. In turn, you may not be redirecting students when you are just outright tired of students’ undesirable behavior.

As students are working in groups, it is a time for the teacher to monitor their thinking. What are the students saying? What is their