## Questions

If it is not okay, then it should never be okay!

Every now and then, a teacher just gets tired of redirecting and correcting unwanted behavior. I have been in a teacher’s classroom so many times. The teacher asks a question and several students begin blurting out the answers. On other occasions, the teacher releases students to do independent work, but then several students yell out for the teacher to repeat the directions. It does not take long for students to catch onto this. All start yelling out questions to the teacher, and before long, it just sounds chaotic. After a while, the teacher eventually says, “Ok, stop yelling out. Raise your hand if you have a question.” But it is too late at this point. The moment the teacher answered the student’s question which was yelled out, the teacher validated that this type of behavior would get them the proper response. The teacher is now in a place where he or she has to reteach and redirect the unwanted behavior. As a result, it takes double the time it would have taken. Time could have been saved, had procedures and routines been established, maintained, and/or followed in the beginning.

Belong long, students go from asking simple questions (or responding to questions) to being distracted by other students or the teacher. All this creates a disruptive classroom, which creates confusion.

Simple ways to get students to respond or ask questions include:

Raise your Hand - This is the simplest way to avoid students yelling out in class. Nonetheless, having students raise their hands to ask questions could be problematic for introverts or shy students who are reluctant to raise their hands. Likewise, students who do not know the answer will also be embarrassed when the teacher ask questions. They do not want their peers to become aware of the fact that they do not know the answer. Because only certain personality types raise their hands to inquire of things in class, the teacher may try to mix it up. However, acknowledge those students who are adhering to the expectation to avoid them feeling ignored. If not, this could breed frustration for students following the procedure. If the teacher does not call on them while their hand is raised, this could