# Daily Classroom Schedule
A classroom schedule helps with establishing a daily routine for students. When students have an established routine, it creates safety and security for them. It is no longer a secret of what comes next or what time things happen in the classroom. I have found that sometimes teachers do not post a daily schedule, because they have not mastered a daily routine. A daily schedule helps to keep everyone on task as well as a steady instructional flow. Students, meanwhile, will be aware of the expectation.

When developing a daily classroom schedule, give yourself grace. It is very similar to budgeting. When creating a budget, we have this money. We have to decide where the money goes, while keeping emergencies and other miscellaneous financial obligations in mind. When creating a schedule, we have a certain amount of daily instructional minutes. We have to put them where they need to go, keeping mishaps in mind. For example, you will find that some days everyone shows up and the schedule flows smoothly. Conversely, this is not the case on other days. So, give yourself grace. When students do not understand a particular concept, it may take longer to teach it. Give yourself grace. If there is a mishap at the restroom, it takes a little longer to get back to classroom. Give yourself grace. If you had a problem bringing all students back to whole group after giving them time in collaborative groups, give yourself grace. Working with children is unpredictable and challenging. However, if this is an issue every day, there may be a need to tighten up your classroom procedures and routines.

Most schools have a set amount of time to teach core subjects. Keep those in mind as you create your classroom schedule. For example, in the school district in which I taught, we had a mandated ninety-minute reading block and sixty-minute math block. Since they were mandated, I budgeted those minutes first and then all the other blocks. It is important to comply with the school, district, and/or state mandates.

Some administrators also require teachers to post their classroom schedules outside their doors. This helps them see which subjects