# Procedure on How Students Enter the Classroom

Upon students entering the classroom, they need designated areas for these items: backpacks, homework, coats/jackets, and returned paperwork.

This routine should not take a long period of time. Students come into the classroom to learn; consequently, they should know to put their things away and get ready to focus. If you must tell students where to put their items each morning, they will always be waiting on you for direction. This type of routine creates a classroom which is totally dependent on you, crippling them from ever taking ownership. What happens if you are pre-occupied with an issue? This would mean that students would not be able to start working until you were free to tell them what to do. In turn, this creates a codependent classroom versus promoting student autonomy.

Students should arrive, putting their backpacks and coats away (when they have them). It should be in the same designated area every day. Changing this place on a daily basis will only breed confusion or uncertainty. Ultimately, it frustrates your students - especially your gold personalities.

Create a basket for which students can turn in homework. Meanwhile, create another basket for returned paperwork or notes from parents. It will promote a smooth transition, saving instruction time when homework is in the same designated area. Moreover, it makes it easier for you to review it. You can check returned paperwork or notes from parents during your planning period, checking it off the list before dismissal. Therefore, you will know if you are still missing any returned paperwork from a parent. You can then notify the student before he/she leaves school.

# Procedure for Returned Paperwork and Morning Work

When paperwork is sent home to be signed by parents, where will students place it upon returning to school? It is the difference between twenty little humans running up to you at the same time,