remember it after many years have passed. In fact, you can probably still tell people about it when asked.

Well, it is the same objective for a lesson. As a teacher, you are the movie director. You are trying to engage your audience (the student) into a learning concept. Likewise, you expect it will stick with them long after they leave your classroom. As a director, you have the power to hook a student into a lesson and cause them to enjoy a subject they may initially not show an interest in.

The lesson’s beginning is how you hook your students. We always think that the actual teaching is the most important part of the lesson. In actuality, it is the opening. How will you grab their attention before teaching the content? You only get one chance to do this; then, it’s gone.

Sometimes a skill which comes easy for us becomes the same skill that is hardest to teach. If a skill is not a struggle for us, sometimes we do not understand the level of struggle in others. Without struggle, we tend to forget how we obtained a success. To effectively teach concepts, a teacher must include the right amount of chunked instruction. Consider a baby. We would not typically give them a full plate of food, but rather we would cut their food into small, bite-sized chunks. Overall this makes it easy for them to eat. It is the same concept with teaching. Students are babies while learning the knowledge, so we have to chunk it for them. Give them digestible bites. We tend to miss certain steps when a skill comes easy for us. We either do not chunk the content small enough for students, or do not give students enough chewing time (processing time) to digest the content. To remedy this, we must allow time for the students to digest the content before giving them more. Even a highly skilled teacher can make this common error.

One afternoon, as I went into one of my math teacher’s classrooms to conduct an observation, I discovered that this particular teacher was highly skilled at math. He had a very complex math problem on the board for students to work out; but instead of showing students a step-by-step process of working out the math problem, he showed the class how to work out the entire math problem. In doing this, he spent thirty minutes teaching confused students. To further the point,