prompt them to yell things out in class. A good procedure could possibly breed negative results, should it be poorly implemented. At the same time, a good procedure is designed to hold all students accountable and meant to keep students safe.

**Using Hand Signals** – Another way to avoid yelling things out in class is to use hand signals, especially for water and restroom breaks. This can prevent the teacher from having to stop instruction when addressing a student asking for a break. Hand signals can be used during instruction time as well, such as facing the palm of your hand forward if you understand the direction. Likewise, face the palm of your hand backwards if you still have questions. Release those who understand the activity, while privately addressing questions from students who still need help. Students may not be as reluctant to ask questions if they know they can do so without public ridicule while in a safe environment.

**Assigning a Group Advocate** - As a teacher releases students to work in small groups, each group should have an advocate before they get started on a task. He or she addresses and clarifies information with the teacher before the group gets started. For instance, the group advocate ensures students have the tools and resources they need. Therefore, all can be successful at the task. The group advocate would ask, “Does anyone need clarifying information before we start?” In response, the group members would state their questions. When the teacher asks if there are any questions or if anyone needs any clarifying information, the group advocate would speak for the group. This method addresses any questions, giving your introverts or shy students a voice.