cafeteria worker began loudly and aggressively asking him to speak up because she could not hear him. Afterwards, she just puts eggs on Johnny’s plate so he could get through the line. Now, he’s more upset.

When Johnny sat down, a student across from him called his shirt ugly. Johnny called him a name, but the teacher on duty only heard Johnny and as a result, made him move seats. At this point, Johnny is fuming and he’s on his way to your classroom!

BUT.... You can deescalate and reset Johnny’s day by being present. Be visible. Let your love shine out the darkness. What are his emotions trying to tell you?

You make a difference.

Although you are human, students look for you to leave Clark Kent at home and bring your superman to school every day.

Relationships with parents and students begin the day you sign your contract and become a teacher. The day you get your school roster is similar to going on your first date. You have one opportunity to make a first impression.

One way to safeguard that this first impression goes over well is by sending a welcome letter to your parents. Introduce yourself. Humanize yourself by telling them about you. Provide your contact information and tell them why you became a teacher. If you are unable to send this letter ahead of time, give it to parents as they come to “Meet the Teacher Night.” If your school does not have a “Meet the Teacher Night” before school starts, give it to students on the first day of school. Therefore, they can take it home to their parents. Giving your contact information is important, for it shows parents/guardians that their concerns are important to you. Moreover, it indicates that you are available to them.

Building relationships with other teachers will be very important for you. These teachers will be your support system, giving you information when your mentor or administrator is unavailable. When teachers feel like they are on an island by themselves, it can impact your emotional well-being as a teacher. Trust me; maintain good relationships with others. You will need your village.