We often hear the term “differentiation” in schools. How can we differentiate instruction to ensure we are reaching and teaching all students? You do not necessarily have to be an expert in order to distinguish instruction for several students from different backgrounds, all of whom have different learning styles. Instead, you only need to know the right strategies to incorporate them.

Orange students typically learn by doing. They need interactive, hands-on learning activities. Integrate physical movement into lessons, keeping them engaged while helping them actively process the information you are teaching. They have difficulty fitting into daily routines; although, that does not mean you have to do away with them. It simply means you must provide opportunities for freedom within the boundaries you have already established. For instance, incorporate hands-on activities into a lesson you have already prepared. Avoid idol time with orange students, because they will entertain themselves if or when you do not.

Blue students respond to encouragement and can be very sensitive to rejection. When correcting behavior, keep their feelings in mind. Their feelings are fragile, so going overboard with the discipline can ultimately create more damage than correction. Therefore, include growth trackers to help your blue students be successful in the classroom. This will allow them to see their growth on a consistent basis and give them positive affirmation. Also, stand outside the door. Greeting them with positive declarations and encouragement will fill their love tanks.

Green students can easily become impatient with drills and routines. Because they are so analytical, it may seem as if they are being a know-it-all. But understand all they really need is to know why. They thrive in explanations and evidence. Give them opportunities to use higher order thinking skills for this will help them flourish in the classroom.

Gold students will easily adapt to your procedures and routines. They enjoy having structure. Remember that, if you say it, then you will have to be consistent in it. Once you tell a gold student that something will happen, they believe you. Mentally they prepare themselves for it. Keeping steady routines will help them thrive in the