classroom expectations. Allow students to choose which expectation they would be working toward that day. This can be done with post-it notes as well. On their post-it note, have students write down which expectation they are working toward, such as: working collaboratively with my group, completing all of my assignments, following classroom expectations, etc. Then, if you see students working toward their expectation, put a $ sign or other mark. If not, add a different mark which lets them know they need to refocus.

It may take a little more monitoring and walking around the classroom, but when students take ownership of their behavior and choices, they are more likely to rise to the occasion.

## Parent Contact

As a principal, one of the main issues which was most difficult to deal with was child custody problems. One parent would come to the school demanding one thing, while the other parent would come to the school later demanding another. Of course the school was unable to oblige both parents, which sparked another fire between both parents. Sometimes the two parents would end up at the school, at the same time, wanting different things. Suddenly, I became an instant mediator. Though, as I listened to both parents express their desires concerning the child, neither parent was completely out of bounds. They both had legit concerns. Both genuinely wanted what they thought was the best thing for the child, but their inability to communicate was hindering the child from benefiting from either of their requests. If they could have just paused and listened to one another, maybe they could have developed an effective co-parenting relationship. This, in turn, would have given the child wings. What was keeping the parents from compromising? The answer was simple. Trust. Neither trusted that the other parent was doing what was best for the child. Neither trusted that the other parent would consider them in making decisions for the child. Neither trusted the ability of the other parent. Neither was willing to see the value in what the other was saying. Therefore, they continued to be at odds. Meanwhile, the child continued to suffer and starve from the love of both parents. Both of their ideas complimented one another, but they did not trust one