come up. You can use phrases such as: Table one, table two, red shirts, black shirts, etc.

The above-mentioned teacher separated all the pasta into different bowls, while having each student come up at once. This, in turn, hindered the lesson.

## Procedure for Students Sharpening Pencils

Nothing will interrupt instruction or a spelling test like someone sharpening a pencil can! The class is super quiet. Then, all of a sudden, here comes this loud noise that gets everyone’s attention. It wakes up the sleeping students and causes you to stop teaching.

The most effective thing to do is to sharpen several pencils ahead of time, having them ready and available for students. This way, if students need a new pencil, they can exchange it and keep working. Then, on your planning period or after school, you or a student helper can assist in sharpening the pencils. Therefore, you can have them ready for the next day. If a student needs to sharpen their pencil, having small sharpeners are also effective. However, make sure students put them back in a designated area. This ensures they are not playing with them during instruction time.

You will soon learn that everything can, and will, become a distraction in class. So, it will be wise to have the pencils sharpened ahead of time.

I had an automatic sharpener in my class. Though early on I learned that, when one student needed to sharpen pencils, everyone else wanted to join in the fun. Suddenly, students who were writing just fine began purposely breaking their pencils, just to get a fresh sharpened pencils. We all like a newly sharpened pencil with a nice tip of lead. However, when several students start coming up to my desk one-by-one and asking for their pencil to be sharpened, it can quickly become a distraction. Furthermore, it can interrupt the flow of instruction.

**Remember:** It will be up to you to save the pencils.

## Procedure for Monitoring and Checking for