not a punishment for students to leave early.

- Know when to let go. It is okay if students do not get all the work finished for that day. If an early dismissal catches you off guard, give the student the work the following day. Allow him or her an extra day to make it up.

- Minimize classroom interruptions by outlining a procedure which consists of a set routine such as: If I leave early - grab my belongings; turn in work or take it home for homework; put away all materials; check my box for any homework (if you implement a box that is purposed for early dismissal); and quietly go to the office.

**Remember:** Make a note of all students who left school early. This will help you keep track of homework needs, while also keeping track of all students during regular dismissal. As much as we would like to think that we can remember all things at all times…we are human. I cannot tell you the amount of times other teachers or myself have been searching for students after school before someone says, “Oh, they went home early.”

# Procedure for Dismissal

You made it to the end of the day! Breathe. Stay Present. Many teachers tend to relax and put their guards down at the end of the day, but this is the time to be most attentive. The final bell may have just rang, but we are still responsible for children until they get to the front door of their homes. Most parents will tell you during “Meet the Teacher” night whether their child rides the bus, walks home, or will be picked up by someone. The parents who do not attend that event will more than likely touch basis with the teacher on the first day of school. However, some parents may tell their children, instead of the teacher, how to go home at the end of the day. Either of these may work, but think about this scenario: What happens if a parent tells their child to ride the bus, but he or she wants to go to their friend’s house, and instead tells you they were told by their parent to walk home? You trust him and send him walking home after school. Thirty minutes after school is dismissed, you hear an irate parent in the office yelling about her child, who is in your class, never making it