# Getting to Know You and Your Students’ Personalities Through Their True Colors

So there I was, in a classroom with 25 little people looking to me for guidance and instruction. Teaching was not my first choice and consequently I had no education background. I had neither student taught nor substituted prior to stepping foot into the classroom. Therefore, I started teaching on an alternative certification and had no clue about teaching. The day I signed my contract happened to be “Meet the Teacher” night. Considering that my new classroom was previously a storage room, I rushed from human resources after signing my contract so that I could fix up my classroom. I was hired to teach at a school that had been low performing for several years, had high discipline issues, and was a more challenging school in the district.

As much as I wanted to be confident, I was nervous, scared, and confused all at the same time. The next morning, students began walking into the classroom, wearing their backpacks, and had their school supplies in hand. Eventually I told them to put their backpacks on the back of their chairs and place their school supplies over on a table. Afterwards, I would decide what to do next.

What I did not expect was for some students to go in and out of their backpacks all day. Neither did I have a plan for the student telling me his parents requested that he not share school supplies; nor did I plan for what could happen if I needed the table which was now full of school supplies. I did not plan for backpacks not staying on chairs all day, or for the fight which ensued after one student stepped on another student’s backpack that was on the floor.

So, there I am: a floor full of backpacks, a table full of supplies, and a student crying. And, I just remembered the student who had asked to go to the restroom earlier had not returned! I was so busy putting out fires in my classroom each day that I had not noticed the teachers looking through the window, laughing and taking bets about how long I would last. Still, each day I would contain the fire, then crashed on the couch from pure exhaustion at night. I spent more time redirecting, threatening, and disciplining students instead of teaching