# Outside of the Classroom

---
PAGE BREAK
---
# Procedure for How Students Line Up

Think about it for a second....

You have just taught a wonderful lesson. The students are ready to transition to the bathroom, lunch, PE, music, the library, and/or recess. The whole morning has been going perfect. Now, it is time to line up. How can we do this in the most effective and efficient way possible? If there is anything that causes a classroom to go from peace to chaos, it is when students have to rise from their seats and transition to another location.

**Remember:** Everyone wants to be the line leader. Our best students want to be the caboose. No one volunteers for the middle.

Let us flip this scenario. All morning your kids have been very active. It has been a challenge trying to get them to slow down and process any content. Now, it’s time to transition! Your anxiety increases every time your students have to leave the classroom. It is one thing for your classroom to be in chaos, but now you are getting ready to move from confined chaos to public chaos. Nevertheless, there’s a procedure for that!

An easy way to organize how students line up is to call them by shirt color, shoe color, table numbers, or even gender. This expectation should always be clearly communicated before the command is given. For example, “Once your materials are put away and you are sitting quietly in your seat, you are ready to line up.”

“I will know you are ready to go to music when you are standing in line and facing forward with your hands by your side.”

“Now, the expectation of when we are in the hallway is to keep your hands to yourself. Respect the learning in other classrooms by not talking.”

If the expectation is not adhered to, stop and correct it immediately. Making corrections may come with issuing consequences. However, do not say it, unless you are ready to do it! Students do not take idle consequences seriously. Once they believe you do not back up what you say, you have just lost control of the classroom.

**DO NOT CRITICIZE, BUT CORRECT!** We improve behavior by