up to you whether you want students to use them or lose them. It simply boils down to your personality and the personality of your students.

## From One Teacher to Another Teacher:

* Like any classroom resource, the teacher has to make it their own. Feel free to tweak these recommendations to fit the needs of your students. Like clothing, one size does not fit all, and if it did, would you really wear them?

* Do not attempt to implement every single strategy in this book at once. Creating classroom procedures and routines is another instructional strategy, which must be carefully taught and implemented.

* You will chunk academic standards into digestible learning bites that enable students to process the content. The same goes with establishing classroom procedures. It is better to do a few things well, rather than several things poorly.

**Remember:** A classroom lacking classroom management results in an overworked teacher. Outlining procedures and routines will release the work to the students.

On the first day of school, you will have several children stepping into your classroom. Each student will come with their own agenda; their own goals; their own will; and, their own personality. It will be up to you to establish and maintain order and structure. It will be up to you to ensure those personalities live and work in harmony. It will be up to you to support those wills while creating a positive classroom culture. It will be up to you to build on their strengths. Most of all, it will be up to you to SAVE THE PENCILS!