define vocabulary words, math steps, prefixes/suffixes, or any other quick concept they learned that day. Students can also write it down and turn it in as they are leaving class.

- Technology - Utilizing technology to perform a post-assessment is another quick check to see evidence of a student’s understanding. An online assessment will give teachers and students immediate feedback and data.

## Procedure for Snack Time

Snack time is always fun time. Children love to snack. This goes back to your classroom job assignments. Getting a student to help with snack time will free up your time. This will allow you to monitor the classroom while the students are having snack time. Get snacks that are not messy (animal crackers, pretzels, apple slices, celery, etc.). Avoid snacks that contain a lot of sugar, because it is a challenge for a sugar brain to focus on learning. The purpose of snack time is to replenish the energy of our kiddos when they need a mid-morning or afternoon boost.

**Recommendations:**

Prep the snacks ahead of time, by counting them out and having the exact number you need. Discovering you do not have enough snacks while still trying to monitor and maintain the classroom could get chaotic.

Remember to never withhold food from any student as a form of punishment. Instead, ensure that they are following the classroom procedure regarding preparing for snack time before you hand out snacks.

Students should also clean up their areas. Class leaders can check to make sure materials are put away, areas are cleaned, and everyone is ready to go while you are preparing the snack.

- Materials managers can guarantee that all materials are placed back in their proper areas.
- The maintenance team (if that’s one of your jobs) can be in charge of getting Clorox wipes and wiping down areas before