students walk onto campus and before they proceed to their homeroom or first class.

Relative to the peer group involved in the fight, specific strategies also are needed. However, consistent with the discussions earlier in this chapter and in Chapter 7, these interventions should be linked to the underlying reasons why the peers either actively promoted the fight or were unable to or did not help to prevent, disengage, or resolve the fight. If students in the ring of terror were consciously motivated to induce the fight, there should be consequences, followed up with practice sessions (following the “If you consecuate, you must educate” principle; see Chapter 1) where they are required to role-play prevention, disengagement, and resolution behaviors. These role-plays should occur in the same location where the most recent fight occurred, and they should simulate the same interpersonal, emotional, and conflictual conditions to a positive resolution.

At an extreme level, consequences for selected students in the ring of terror might have to parallel those for the students involved in the actual fight—especially if these students explicitly compelled the fight. For example, if the latter students receive a three-day suspension for actually fighting, the former students receive a one-day suspension for their involvement. While this may seem surprising, the one-day suspension is consistent with the analysis that the peer group contributed important dynamics to the eventual fight, that these students behaved with clear intent to encourage the fight, and that these students must be held accountable for their behavior. Naturally, consequences at this level (i.e., Intensity IV on the school’s Behavioral Matrix) need to be communicated to all students at the beginning of the school year. Significantly, in our experience, when these consequences are clear and implemented consistently, they do decrease this inappropriate peer and bystander behavior with a concomitant decrease in student fights.

As noted above, additional characteristics and conditions in one or more of the other five student-specific special situation domains often also contribute to the existence of student fights. These are summarized in Table 7.1 along with different strategies to stop and stabilize a fight situation, and to intervene such that future fights are prevented.

Table 7.1 Student-Specific Special Situations Interventions: Fighting
Example