- Adults are generally unaware of or underestimate the extent of bullying that occurs in schools, and they may not intervene even when aware of bullying. While this is changing as many states enact legislation in this area, this suggests that adult involvement is critical to preventing and responding to bullying situations and behavior.
- The peer group needs to be included in any intervention program as some students have become desensitized to bullying over time due to its frequency in some schools. Students must recognize bullying when it occurs and be willing to intervene and stop it.
- Relative to bullies, comprehensive, multifaceted programs that include social cognitive interventions that include social skills, social-cognitive problem solving, and aggression reduction and replacement training have the strongest empirical support.

Beyond the research summarized above, very few studies, at least in the United States, have addressed or fully validated research-proven ways to decrease or prevent bullying as part of a schoolwide initiative (Doll & Swearer, 2006; Leff & Crick, 2010; Merrell, Gueldner, Ross, & Isava, 2008; Swearer et al., 2010; Ttofi & Farrington, 2009; Vreeman & Carroll, 2007). This is partly because many bullying programs have focused narrowly on decreasing or eliminating bullying rather than also increasing and strengthening students’ social competency and emotional and behavioral self-management skills. In addition, many bullying programs are stand-alone programs, implemented in the absence of an evidence-based, multi-tiered PBSS. Indeed, it is suggested that when the skill, accountability, consistency, and special situation components of Project ACHIEVE’s Tier 1 PBSS are implemented with integrity and intensity, low or minimal levels of TTBHHPA result. Hence, the TTBHHPA incidents that remain are successfully addressed through small group or individual student analyses and interventions, rather than additional schoolwide approaches. Thus, in this scenario, there is no need for a specialized, formal, or packaged bullying program (e.g., Olweus, Bully-Proofing)—the multi-tiered PBSS is the bullying program.

At the same time, if high levels of TTBHHPA exist despite the presence of an effectively implemented Tier 1 PBSS, a Special Situation Analysis should be completed and linked to explicit intervention directions and