When students are not learning or making sufficient progress in a classroom or when they are referred for academic difficulties, questions related to a teacher’s instructional approach or other related instructional factors should be considered:

- Does the Instructional Environment support the learning process?
- Is the teacher being effective with the student?
- Is the teacher adapting the curriculum such that there is an appropriate student-curriculum match?
- Is instruction programmed for student success?
- When special academic interventions are necessary, does the teacher have the knowledge, skill, confidence, objectivity, or interactional skills needed to maximize success?
- When special academic interventions are necessary, are there appropriate resources, support materials, and staff available to the teacher to maximize success?
- When special academic interventions are necessary, is a problem-solving process used that links assessment directly to intervention?
- When special academic interventions are necessary, are the interventions acceptable to the teacher, socially valid, and effectively implemented?

*Curricular Characteristics and Conditions* involve characteristics and conditions of the academic curricula being used (or that were previously used) in a classroom and include a curriculum’s content and materials as well as the processes that are used to ensure student learning and mastery.

When considering the curriculum within the context of students referred for academic difficulties, these relevant questions should be considered:

- Does the curriculum specify the particular objectives that the student is expected to master for each instructional unit?
- Does the curriculum specify the particular skills that the student must possess as a prerequisite to meeting the instructional objectives for each unit?