Relative to this latter point, in most special situations, stability typically is needed before intervention can succeed. That is, if there is so much physical, social, emotional, behavioral, or organizational chaos in or around a common school area, this needs to be resolved so that the Special Situation Analysis and intervention can be effectively and efficiently executed. This is because the chaos may make an accurate analysis of the special situation difficult or even impossible—masking or confounding the real problems and reasons underlying the problem. This will then result in an unsuccessful intervention plan and outcomes that may exacerbate the problem or dishearten the staff. The chaos may also be increasing the severity or emotionality of the situation—making the common area problem worse or seem worse than it actually is. Thus, once again, decreasing or eliminating the chaos allows the problem-solving process to address a more accurate version of the actual problem.

Revisiting running, pushing, and shoving in the middle school hallway one last time, it may be that the number of students involved and the frequency and severity of the misbehavior is so extreme that the hallways are out of control war zones. Given this, a number of different stabilization activities, organized across the special situation continuum, may be appropriate.

**Possible Student Stabilization Activities.** Try controlling the number of students present in the hallways at any one time by limiting the number of hallway passes allowed during class time, staggering (with enhanced staff presence and supervision) the number of students passing through the hall in between class periods, or keeping the students in single classrooms during the school day and having their teachers rotate to them after each class period (until the situation is stabilized and interventions can be implemented).

**Possible Teacher/Staff Stabilization Activities.** In addition to having all teachers participate in the student activities above, ensure that every adult in the school is actively present in the hallways in between every class period and before and after school, that the most problematic hallways have more staff presence during the times or periods when previous problem situations have most typically occurred, and that some staff are assigned to escort the