5. Put everything in the proper places (recycling, trash, silverware, trays, etc.)
6. Walk to your dismissal line

**Teacher and Staff Characteristics, Issues, and Factors.** Like the students, staff members (instructional, support, paraprofessional, administrative, and others) need to know, learn, and consistently demonstrate effective interpersonal, social problem-solving, conflict prevention and resolution, and emotional coping skills in the common areas of the school. Indeed, they need to know how to teach, prompt, and reinforce the behavioral expectations discussed above as well as the skills or behaviors that students are taught to prevent or quickly resolve conflicts or to respond to during extreme conflict or emergency situations. Critically, staff members need training in these important areas, and the training should use the same teach, model, role-play, performance feedback, and transfer of training approaches used with the students. Ultimately, staff members and students should be able to demonstrate the skills and behaviors when different circumstances occur and conditions of emotionality exist. Beyond this, students should be consistently held accountable for their appropriate and inappropriate behavior, respectfully, regardless of whether the staff person is known or unknown, instructional or paraprofessional. Moreover, specific policies and procedures should exist that describe staff members’ responsibilities for monitoring and supervising students in the common areas of the school, and they should be continuously evaluated and held accountable to these policies.

**Environmental Characteristics, Issues, and Factors.** Safe and secure common school areas result most often when there is a comprehensive process to continuously plan, implement, and evaluate the safety and security of the entire school. This occurs when schools conduct scheduled school safety audits, remediate identified weaknesses or gaps, and update their practices when, for example, more effective procedures or new technologies become available. These audits also help to prevent crisis situations, and they establish the protocols for an effective first response system when crises actually occur (see section below). A comprehensive school safety audit typically addresses specific broad areas (Texas School