addition, the team reviews the draft expectations for the different common areas of the school and any other proposals or feedback requested by the committee. Finally, the team decides how to involve students and parents in the matrix-building process so that they can provide both input and ideas to the matrix before it is finalized.

To involve the students, some grade levels separate the matrix, asking different classes to provide feedback on one or two specific sections. Other grade levels choose a representative focus group of students and let them read and provide feedback on the entire matrix. To involve the parents, some grade levels present their matrix at a regularly (or specially) scheduled parent-teacher meeting. Other grade levels collectively use the leadership from their parent-teacher association (PTA) or parent-teacher organization (PTO) to decide how to best get feedback on different matrices. Clearly, involving students and parents in the matrix process is very important. The student feedback, for example, often helps to validate and expand the lists of incentives and consequences, increasing the potential that they are both meaningful and powerful. The parent involvement often helps to strengthen communication, collaboration, and consistency from school to home and reinforce a message to the students that they are behaviorally accountable in all settings.

Eventually, each grade-level team finalizes its matrix and responds to all other school discipline/PBSS committee requests. At this point, the grade-level representatives bring everything to the Phase 4 committee meeting. While Phase 3 may involve more than one meeting in each grade level, these meetings are instrumental in resolving any final disagreements relative to the matrix’s contents or use and in solidifying the staff’s collective commitment to the grade and school accountability process.

## Phase 4: At the School Discipline/PBSS Committee

In Phase 4, the school discipline/PBSS committee completes a final review of all of the matrices, integrating and collating them into a final document, and prepares to lead a faculty meeting where the results are presented and formally approved. The committee also (a) discusses ways to roll out the matrix to the entire school (and community) once faculty approval has been secured, (b) begins to identify the resources and materials that will facilitate the rollout process, and (c) outlines the steps