- Are there specific staff members whom (different groups of) students respond to more positively or negatively, and does their presence in the hallway predict when running and pushing occurs or does not occur, respectively?
- Do staff members consistently teach (in advance) and prepare or remind students of the hallway expectations before they enter the hallways? How (and how quickly, directly, and consistently) do they reinforce or correct students (if they do) for appropriate versus inappropriate hallway behavior as it occurs?
- Are there enough staff members in the hallway throughout the school day, are they present from the beginning to the end of the passing period, and are they effectively positioned along the hallways to maximize their impact?
- Do the different student groups, especially those who are exhibiting the problem behaviors, respond appropriately and similarly to every staff member, or are there differences in their responses?
- If present, why are there differences in how students respond to certain staff members? Does this relate to gender, race, culture, experience, role, status, responsibility, or other differences between the specific staff members and students involved?
- Does the presence or the response from specific staff members increase or decrease students’ appropriate versus inappropriate behavior?
- Is the running, pushing, and shoving a historical or a recent pattern of behavior? Does it relate to the characteristics or student management approaches of the school’s administrators or changes in one or more administrators over time?
- What is the commitment of the staff members and other adults in the school to change the behaviors of concern?

**Environmental Characteristics, Issues, and Factors—Physical Plant and Logistics.** In general, the problem analysis process here specifically investigates the settings where the inappropriate student behavior is largely occurring, the dynamics and conditions (both positive and negative) within those settings or environments, the logistics whereby students and staff members enter and exit the settings, and how these conditions are contributing to or causing different facets of the problem. Depending on the