may extend across an entire school year or it may be concentrated from January through June. Regardless, in most cases, the first formal year of implementation starts just before the beginning of a new school year. Thus, those involved in PBSS planning and preparation need to complete the activities below so that the pre-implementation year moves seamlessly into the next year of formal implementation.

## Focus Area 1. Choosing a PBSS Model or Approach and Evaluating the Motivational Readiness of the Staff and Others for the PBSS Initiative

### Action 1.1: Initial PBSS Interest and Research Review and Study Team Selection.

A school or district becomes interested in implementing a PBSS, and an initial research review and internet search of its generic goals, objectives, evidence-based components, activities, and outcomes is completed. The results of this review are reported to the entire faculty and, by virtue of a consensus of the faculty and the support of the administration, the SLT or a PBSS task force or study team with cross-staff representation is chosen to lead this part of the initiative.

### Action 1.2: Initial Collection of Three Years of PBSS-Related School Data and Information.

The study team collects at least three years of existing PBSS-related data, information, and outcomes from and about the school. This is collected from federal (Elementary and Secondary Education Act and Individuals with Disabilities Education Act), state, district, and school report cards and related databases and includes, for example, information about:

- (a) student achievement and engagement;
- (b) students’ social, emotional, behavioral health, mental health, and wellness status, programs, and needs;
- (c) perceptions and indicators of positive school climate and school safety;
- (d) office discipline referrals, student suspensions and expulsions, and special education or alternative school referrals and placements due to student behavior;
- (e) staff professional development and impact;
- (f) parent and community involvement and outreach initiatives and outcomes.