circumstances, or events that impact their social, emotional, and behavioral control on a regular basis and at an extreme level.

Source: Project ACHIEVE Press. Dr. Howie Knoff (author).

From a formative evaluation perspective, a school or district could pool the results of these self-evaluations to determine the current intervention expertise across its multidisciplinary professionals. When contrasting these results with the intervention needs of the school or district, this evaluation helps identify intervention gaps that need to be closed, for example, by hiring additional personnel or short-term consultants, or by investing in strategic training, professional development, and clinical supervision for existing personnel. From a summative evaluation perspective, this survey could be completed one or more years after, for example, a professional development initiative with existing intervention staff. After comparing the initial and second set of individual and pooled ratings, the school or district can determine its progress in the intervention areas evaluated, and the impact of the professional development on student behavior and staff satisfaction.

**SUSTAINING PBSS OUTCOMES: IMPLEMENTING SYSTEMATIC ARTICULATION PROCESSES**

In addition to evaluating PBSS outcomes, it is important that schools use an organized and transparent process so that effective system, school, staff, and student processes are transferred systematically from one school year to the next. In this way, the lessons learned during each school year—especially about students and how they most effectively learn—are articulated so that every new school year begins, on the first day of school, at full PBSS capacity. Effective articulation processes also minimize the wasted time and effort that sometimes occur when teachers do not receive important student information at the beginning of the school year (or receive it late), such that