whereby a student’s eligibility to receive special educational services is investigated. When this is needed, specific SPRINT team members, who are also on the school’s special education eligibility team, should take the lead. When staff members serve on both the SPRINT and eligibility teams, a seamless transfer of information and experience occurs from the early intervening services provided through the SPRINT process to the assessment process that investigates a student’s eligibility to receive special education services.

Finally, the parent involvement/community outreach committee is responsible for planning, implementing, and evaluating the activities described in the effective schools parent and community training, support, and outreach component in **Chapter 1** that are written into the school’s annual SIP. As such, based on ongoing needs assessments of the school’s different parent and community groups and constituencies and asset analyses of their resources, interest, and capacity, this committee focuses on establishing and sustaining the collaborative approaches needed to address students’ academic and social, emotional, or behavioral needs in home or community settings and on increasing the support, involvement, and leadership of parents, community agencies, and other organizations in accomplishing the school’s mission and goals.

While many schools point to their parent-teacher associations (PTAs) as their parent and community involvement and outreach committees, these organizations—while important and needed—are outside-in groups. The parent involvement/community outreach committee is an inside-out group. Thus, this committee consists of a representative cross section of staff from within a school, it meets on a monthly basis, and it reaches out to and supports its PTA leaders and members. But this committee also collaborates with other community agencies and organizations, establishes partnerships with relevant businesses and foundations, and becomes, formally or informally, the public face and public relations unit for the school.

In the end, many schools need to establish this committee because they have never thought to organize an inside-out committee to spearhead the important activities described above. When established for the first time, this committee should devote considerable time and discussion to establishing its group norms and processes, completing its needs assessments and resource analyses, and determining its mission, goals, objectives, and initial action plan. This start-up process should be carefully