initially given to the student is determined first, by how often the inappropriate behavior is exhibited before the intervention is begun (i.e., the baseline of the behavior) and thereafter, by the number of tokens remaining (i.e., the student’s level of success) as the intervention is implemented over time. Thus, as the student exhibits the inappropriate target behavior less and less often (i.e., keeping more and more tokens over time), the teacher decreases the number of tokens such that the inappropriate behavior is systematically decreased and eventually eliminated. This intervention has been useful in decreasing or eliminating such persistent inappropriate behavior as aggression, inappropriate verbalizations, hyperactivity, fire setting, self-injurious behavior, and tantrums. As with any motivational intervention, the student must have the ability to demonstrate the appropriate behavior and must be motivated to earn the positive reinforcement made available.

In order to implement this intervention effectively, the teacher, behavioral consultant or specialist, or mental health practitioner should follow a specific sequence of steps:

1. Identify the specific behavior or offense that needs to be decreased or eliminated while identifying the appropriate behavior that helps the student to avoid performing the inappropriate behavior.
2. Complete a functional assessment of the behavior, including a history of when, where, how often, and with whom the behavior has occurred in the past, while determining why the inappropriate behavior is occurring (e.g., emotional control problems, attention, power or control, revenge, escape, etc.).
3. Through this functional assessment, determine the baseline frequency of inappropriate behavior across a specific period of time (e.g., per hour, per period, per day).
4. Validate that the target student has mastered the appropriate behaviors that will help him or her to be successful in multiple settings and under multiple conditions of concern (if mastery has not occurred, instruction is needed).
5. Discuss and identify with the student a range of possible meaningful and powerful tangible (actual or symbolic or exchangeable) and intangible, extrinsic and intrinsic reinforcers.