possible to assure his community that his schools and students were safe and to inform them of how such acts could be prevented in Baltimore.

At ten o’clock the next day, the superintendent and I participated in a press conference where we addressed the local media to deliver our message. While Baltimore is no stranger to violence, we felt that our quick response to the devastating events at Columbine was necessary, stabilizing, and helpful to the climate of the schools during a difficult and emotional time.

---

# INTRODUCTION

The issue and impact of teasing, taunting, bullying, harassment, hazing, and physical aggression (TTBHHPA) on students’ feelings of safety and security in their schools, their academic engagement in the classroom, and—for some—their academic achievement and graduation has been well-chronicled over the past 25 years or more (Batsche & Knoff, 1994; Cook, Williams, Guerra, Kim, & Sadek, 2010; Espelage & Holt, 2001; Glew, Fan, Katon, Rivara, & Kernic, 2005; Swearer, Espelage, Vaillancourt, & Hymel, 2010). While many different legal and other definitions exist for these acts (U.S. Department of Education, Office of Planning, Evaluation and Policy Development, Policy and Program Studies Service, 2011), it is not always clear when teasing becomes taunting, taunting becomes bullying, bullying becomes hazing, and hazing becomes harassment. For this reason, we conceptualize these special situation acts along this loose continuum, suggesting that the severity or intensity of the offense increases from teasing through physical aggression. At the same time, we recognize that the social, emotional, and behavioral impact of TTBHHPA is unique to each person. Regardless, whether students experience a mild or a severe reaction to one of these acts, every school’s Positive Behavioral Support System (PBSS) needs to be dedicated (a) to the prevention of acts of TTBHHPA (by both students and staff); (b) to their analysis when they do occur; and (c) to the strategic responses and interventions that eliminate them in the future.

The beginning of the preventative process relative to TTBHHPA is the development of district and school policies that outline and clearly state that these acts are inappropriate and, in many cases, against state department of