# INTENSITY III (PERSISTENT OR ANTISOCIAL) BEHAVIOR IS RESPONDED TO WITH AN OUT-OF-CLASSROOM CONSEQUENCE, FOLLOWED BY AN INTERVENTION

An out-of-classroom consequence communicates to individual and groups of students that their behavior is very inappropriate. Critically, the consequence is not the removal of the student from the classroom setting; it is what occurs in the out-of-class setting (and, later, when they re-enter the original classroom setting). Thus, Intensity III consequences involve specific teacher, administrator, or parent actions and interactions with a student focused on responding to his or her inappropriate behavior while motivating a behavioral change resulting in future appropriate behavior. Often, Intensity III consequences are an extension of Intensity II consequences, with administrative or parental involvement, or they involve the precursors of Intensity IV (code of conduct) administrative responses. With appropriate adaptation, the behavioral principles discussed for Intensity II consequences above should be followed here with Intensity III consequences.

Beyond the points immediately above, when a student exhibits an Intensity III infraction, the student’s social, emotional, or behavioral status and history and the severity or intensity of the offense should be considered to determine if a data-based functional assessment using the SPRINT (School Prevention, Review, and Intervention Team) process (see Chapters 1 and 8) is needed. Represented in the first asterisk on Figure 4.1, this assessment helps determine if an Intensity III consequence will resolve the behavioral situation for the future or if a more targeted, strategic intervention is needed. A functional assessment is definitely indicated when a student exhibits ongoing Intensity III offenses. This suggests that the