# Victims

- Boys are more likely to be victims of bullying than girls. Girls tend to be bullied more through personal or relational attacks, while boys experience more physical or aggressive attacks. Bullying sometimes occurs due to relationship variables between the bully and victim and not just as a function of initiation by a bully.
- Students from preschool through age 16 respond to bullying through a range of negative emotions or reactions: anger, revenge, self-pity, confusion, loneliness, physical and psychological distress, depression, anxiety, somatic symptoms, and lowered self-esteem. These reactions result in these students sometimes feeling abandoned, afraid of school, and worried at school. Victims also are lonelier and have more difficulty making friends. All of this potentially results in school avoidance or absences, difficulties concentrating while at school, and poor school performance.
- Victims of bullies are more prone to suicidal ideation, severe depression, or extreme acts of hostility or aggression.
- Victims are likely to demonstrate internalizing (e.g., anxiety, withdrawal, depression) difficulties and to lack social and social problem-solving skills. They often are noticeably rejected and isolated by their peers.

# Comparisons

- Having negative attitudes and beliefs about others significantly predicts whether a student will be a bully or bully-victim.
- Having negative attitudes about oneself significantly predicts whether a student will be a victim. However, the strongest predictors of becoming a victim include poor social competence skills and an inability to establish and maintain satisfactory interpersonal relationships with others.
- While both groups are weak in their social competence skills, bullies have relatively better skills than victims. Bully-victims, however, have the most difficulties in the area of social competence.

When considering school-level and individual interventions for bullying and bullies, the research recognizes key factors related to intervention: