50. Teachers at this school believe that students’ problems must be functionally assessed before appropriate interventions can be identified and implemented.

24. Students are taught school and classroom routines before being held accountable for them.

46. Teachers at this school are willing to look at students’ strengths as well as their weaknesses.

28. Teachers have high and reasonable academic expectations of their students.

48. Teachers at this school are willing to give the student peer group some responsibility for monitoring its own members.

31. Students are provided multiple opportunities to practice and apply new social skills in both group and individual settings.

15. Students are frequently rewarded or praised by faculty and staff for following school rules.

47. Teachers at this school are willing to tolerate some negative behavior as long as it is decreasing over time.

22. Teachers treat students with respect.

19. Students are taught the school rules.

10. Student at the school are prompted and encouraged to reinforce themselves when appropriate.

8. Students at the school experience five positive interactions from teachers and other staff for each negative interaction.

45. Teachers at this school willingly accept responsibility for every student in the building.

34. Class starts promptly at the beginning of each instruction period.

Factor 2: Students’ Positive Behavioral Interactions and Respect (11 items)

26. Students have the behavioral skills needed to work in cooperative learning groups.

25. Students have the behavioral skills needed to work independently when required.