# Student-Specific Special Situations—Crisis Management.

The special situation discussion thus far has paralleled our multi-tiered approach to schoolwide PBSS. Summarizing briefly, the core PBSS components, involving social skills instruction, developmentally sensitive motivation and accountability systems, staff and student consistency, and preventative setting- and student-specific special situation activities, form the foundation of a schoolwide process that minimizes or quickly addresses the vast majority of a school’s TTBHHPA status or concerns. At the secondary prevention level, these evidence-based components help organize a problem-solving schema that is used to functionally determine the reasons why a school has continuing or persistent TTBHHPA problems. The confirmed reasons, generated through this analysis, then are linked to effective and efficient strategic interventions that eliminate future TTBHHPA incidents, replacing them with prosocial interactions and processes. Finally, at the tertiary, crisis-management level, the focus is on the students, peers, staff, or parents who demonstrate or support high levels of serious, persistent, and resistant TTBHHPA behavior; or on schools that have toxic climates or settings where TTBHHPA behavior is pervasive and out of control. Here, crisis management or intensive services, supports, strategies, or programs are needed. Crisis management focuses largely on stopping and stabilizing the current crisis situations, while the intensive interventions focus on helping everyone to debrief and cope with the aftermath of the situations, and to prevent new or renewed crises in the future.

Ways to analyze and address crisis management concerns in the five core special situation domains were discussed in Chapter 6. In the sixth peer group characteristics, issues, and factors domain, a number of problem analysis and intervention approaches have been presented in this chapter. To complete this discussion, the stabilizing and crisis-management strategies for a sample situation that could easily escalate to a crisis level are briefly outlined. The situation involves racially motivated taunting, and the strategies, organized across the special situation domains, are presented in Table 7.2.

Table 7.2 Stabilizing and Crisis Management Responses to Racially Motivated Taunting Across the Special Situation Domains