these skills is to assess and analyze a student’s personal self-management (e.g., attention control, emotional control, and self-concept/self-esteem) skills; interpersonal (e.g., engagement and response, problem-solving, and conflict prevention and resolution) skills; and environmental or situational (e.g., school, classroom, academic supporting, and extracurricular) skills. After contrasting a student’s current with expected social, emotional, and behavioral skills, the skill gap most typically results in a need to (a) increase the frequency of existing behaviors or establish new behaviors; (b) decrease the frequency of, or eliminate, inappropriate behaviors; (c) increase the duration of appropriate behaviors or decrease the duration of inappropriate behaviors; (d) decrease the latency time relative to the appearance, or initiation, of appropriate behaviors; or (e) increase the intensity of appropriate behaviors or decrease the intensity of inappropriate behaviors.

Even when there is a need to decrease or eliminate inappropriate behavior, the problem-solving process should concurrently focus on increasing or establishing appropriate replacement behaviors. Replacement behaviors describe the positive, proactive, or prosocial emotional or behavioral competencies or self-management skills that teachers and others want the student to demonstrate. These skills are never described using the words not, stop, or don’t. While some teachers intuitively believe that the primary goal of a behavioral intervention is to stop an inappropriate behavior (e.g., running, swearing, bullying), they need to understand that many challenging students will replace one inappropriate behavior for another if the intervention does not also focus on true replacement behaviors (i.e., walking, appropriate conversation, positive or neutral social interactions).

The next activity in this step is to quantify the gap. This is especially important because these numbers help to set short-term progress monitoring goals and long-term intervention goals. In most cases, the quantification reflects a behavior’s frequency, duration, intensity, or latency. If the problem involves some type of assessment instrument or tool, the gap may relate to the test’s norm-referenced standard score or t score. Finally, as some social or interaction problems or replacement behaviors may be more descriptive in nature, they may require a more qualitative or process-oriented gap analysis approach.