volunteers who meet with the students after school or out of school. Adult mediators tend to be counselors, behavioral intervention consultants or specialists, other health or mental health support staff, or administrators who work in these students’ schools. Critically, peer and adult mentors and mediators need to be strategically matched to the students they are serving; they must to be trained, supervised, and evaluated; and they must be held accountable to specific student and service goals and outcomes.

Figure 9.1 Tier 2: Strategic Intervention Services for Some Students

What is the problem?
Why is it occurring?
What are we going to do about it?
Is it working?

Peer/adult mentoring programs
Peer/adult mediation programs
Strategic Skill Instruction
Small group social skills/socialization training
Anger/emotion-/self-control training
Attention-control training
Strategic Behavioral Interventions (Behavioral Matrix Intensity II and III) (response cost, positive practice/ restitutional overcorrection, group contingencies, cognitive-behavioral strategies, etc.)
Strategic Special Situation Interventions
Self-concept, divorce, loss, teasing/ bullying, PTSD groups/interventions

Source: Project ACHIEVE Press. Dr. Howie Knoff (author).

**A Mentoring Program Example.** Check and Connect (Christenson & Carroll, 1999; Sinclair, Hurley, Christenson, Thurlow, & Evelo, 2002) is an evidence-based example of a mentoring program that originally targeted dropout prevention by connecting At-Risk students with an in-school mentor who would check on them, often on a daily basis. During the check component, for example, the mentor and student meet a few minutes before and after each school day to informally discuss (and, hopefully, reinforce) the student’s school and classroom attendance and behavior, academic and social engagement, and academic and behavioral progress. As part of the connect component, the mentor develops a positive, supportive, and ongoing in-school relationship with the student, providing a level of individualized attention, reinforcement, and validation, and a potential