physiological state of emotional stability and control. Requiring parental permission, this intervention often is integrated into a broader intervention program for a student that includes specific goals, expected outcomes, and ongoing progress monitoring.

Another behavioral intervention in this area is called thought stopping. This cognitive-behavioral intervention helps some students to disrupt or stop certain thoughts or feelings that lead to a physiological loss of self-control. Once again, this is a clinical intervention that is implemented by trained mental health practitioners.

## STRATEGIC MOTIVATIONAL INTERVENTIONS AT THE TIER 2 LEVEL

Some student challenges occur not because of skill deficits, but because of motivational or performance deficits. In contrast with the can’t do students discussed immediately above, the Tier 2 interventions in this section focus on the Hypothesis #5: accountability won’t do students. Once again, depending on the functional assessment results, the goals of some of the interventions here are to increase appropriate student social interactions, emotional reactions, or behavioral responses, while other interventions are designed to also or exclusively decrease inappropriate student behavior so that it can be replaced with appropriate behavior.

### Interventions to Increase Student Behavior.

While there are a number of Tier 2 motivational interventions that increase appropriate student behavior, we will briefly describe two: (a) positive reinforcement and (b) group contingencies (see Kazdin, 2001; Kerr & Nelson, 2010; Knoff, 2010c). While these approaches are often used in general education classrooms (even at the Tier 1 level), it is crucial to implement them in ways consistent with their underlying scientific principles. Indeed, when implementation ignores or violates the underlying science that makes these interventions work, or when implementers do not know how to modify these interventions as different levels of appropriate behavior emerge, the interventions will not work, their success will not be sustained, or student dependency—rather than self-management—will result. Thus, these are interventions that require training, supervision, and experience, whether