Tier 2 approach to accomplish the same goal might involve (a) a general classroom teacher (b) working with students from one class or pooled from across an entire grade level (c) in a targeted skill group (d) that is learning or practicing specific, targeted skills at a special time each week.

In most cases, students in targeted skills groups will continue to participate in the ongoing Tier 1 skills instruction that is occurring in the regular classroom. In fact, the skills group students actually may be learning and practicing the same skills as in their regular classroom—just in a more adapted way to facilitate their learning, mastery, and application. For example, for skill deficit students, the instruction may need to occur more individually, with greater specificity, and with more modification of the curriculum. For speed of acquisition students, more positive practice opportunities may be necessary along with specific accommodations within the learning environment. For transfer of training or generalization students, previously learned skills may need to be directly taught in different settings, with different people, and under different circumstances so that students more automatically generalize their skill use when actually needed. Finally, for conditions of emotionality students, the smaller and more individualized skills group setting allows students to engage in supervised role-plays that simulate the specific emotional conditions or circumstances where students have difficulty executing certain skills. This increases the appropriate transfer and use of these skills in actual situations where different levels of emotionality exist.

Targeted skills groups also can strategically sequence the instruction and reinforcement of certain skills. For example, the skill deficit and speed of acquisition students may learn specific skills in their skills groups three to four weeks before the same skills are introduced and taught for the first time in the general education classroom. Transfer of training or generalization and conditions of emotionality students may receive additional, targeted practice of specific skills in their skills groups one or two weeks after they were initially taught in the general education classroom. In this way, students who need more individualized or intensive advanced or follow-up instruction, respectively, in order to benefit from regular classroom instruction, receive it as well as students who need more positive practice opportunities in order to master their skills.

Finally, based on student-specific functional assessments, there will be times when behavior intervention specialists or mental health practitioners