approaches. Based on these analyses, a more formal published and packaged bullying program may be needed.

# THE SPECIAL SITUATION DOMAINS FOR TEASING, TAUNTING, BULLYING, HARASSMENT, HAZING, AND PHYSICAL AGGRESSION

In Chapter 6, five special situation domains (i.e., the student, teacher and staff, environmental, incentive and consequence, and resource and resource utilization domains) were described at the prevention, problem solving, and crisis management levels. Relative to TTBHHPA, a sixth peer group characteristics, issues, and factors domain is now added. Embedded in Chapter 6’s problem-solving discussion of the student characteristics, issues, and factors domain, this new domain is needed given research establishing that peers directly or actively reinforce (by being antagonists) or indirectly or inadvertently reinforce (by observing, but being uninvolved bystanders) others’ bullying behavior (e.g., Bosworth, Espelage, & Simon, 1999; Pellegrini, Bartini, & Brooks, 1999; Rigby, 2000, 2001, 2002).

Below, these six domains are used to organize the student-specific special situations discussion at the prevention, problem-solving, and crisis management levels. The prevention level focuses on promoting prosocial student and staff interactions, minimizing students’ TTBHHPA interactions, and decreasing or eliminating these negative interactions when they occur at low or mild levels. The problem-solving level focuses on determining why these behaviors occur at moderate or high frequency or significant or extreme levels in a school and linking the results of these special situation analyses to strategic intervention approaches. The crisis management level revisits the Chapter 6 discussion in this area, extending it to student-specific special situations.

## Student-Specific Special Situations—Prevention

Student-specific special situation prevention activities involve schoolwide processes that result in (a) empowered students who are tolerant, have sound interpersonal, social problem-solving, and conflict prevention and resolution skills, can disarm