initiative, but the vocal negative staff members were among those who dissented—the only counselor in the building, the school’s union representative, and one of the special education teachers.

In the follow-up SLT meeting in May, I expressed my concerns about the motivational readiness of the building given the dissenting staff and their formal and informal influence in the school. I recommended that we spend additional time to build the school’s readiness and motivation, but the Team was not interested as the school year was ending and this would delay the first year of PBSS implementation in August. The principal replied, “I can handle the dissenters and bring them on board.”

Against my better judgment, we began formal implementation in August. By the middle of the school year, it was apparent that the initiative was being undermined by the dissenters and that more dissenters had been brought on board. By the end of the year, the initiative was discontinued with no expectation that it could be resurrected by working again with the staff to rebuild the commitment needed.

---

## INTRODUCTION

In order to effectively implement and scale up a PBSS in a school, across multiple schools in the same district, or across a state, it is important to have an evidence-based blueprint that can be adapted to meet the individual history, norms, needs, resources, and past and present outcomes at the school, district, or state level. As discussed in Chapter 1, this blueprint is implemented systematically and systemically across an entire school, and it is integrated into its effective school and schooling processes and its continuous improvement and strategic planning activities. At a district level, the same PBSS blueprint and process should be used across all schools, although some differentiation may occur at the elementary versus secondary levels.

Beyond the blueprint, the organizational and motivation readiness of a school and its staff is essential when planning, executing, maintaining, and sustaining a PBSS initiative. In addition, the importance of schoolwide planning and organization, capacity building and the use of resources, training and supervision, and implementation and evaluation is vital.