involve office-based consequences, school suspensions, and then, intensive interventions.

Because the behaviors at each intensity level are agreed upon by staff and taught and communicated to students, their behavior is evaluated against a set of explicit behavioral standards. Moreover, when staff responses to both appropriate and inappropriate student behavior are consistent and predictable, students know how staff will respond in different situations and that they will be held accountable for their behavior. All of this facilitates a climate that reinforces student responsibility and self-management. This information is discussed further in Chapter 4.

When students do not respond to the skill instruction and behavioral accountability system over time or to a significant degree, or when they engage in persistent or significant Intensity III or IV behaviors, the need for functional assessment and strategic intervention becomes more apparent. This information is discussed further in Chapters 8 and 9.

**Consistency.** While social skills instruction and schoolwide accountability processes are necessary, a focus on consistency still is needed for student self-management and positive behavioral support success. Critically, consistency is more of a process than something that teachers explicitly teach (as in skills) or provide (as in incentives and consequences). Thus, the PBSS addresses skill consistency by evaluating the integrity of the social skills program’s implementation in the classrooms and across the school; accountability consistency through the development and continuous monitoring of the Behavioral Matrix; and staff consistency by establishing staff processes that encourage positive staff communication, commitment, trust, collaboration, and celebration.

Consistency, however, also necessarily involves the students, who need to contribute to and sustain a prosocial atmosphere of prevention and communicate a no-tolerance attitude for inappropriate peer behavior. Thus, the PBSS helps schools create conscious and explicit values, expectations, norms, procedures, and interactions that prevent or respond to such behaviors as teasing, taunting, bullying, harassment, hazing, and aggression. This is best done by involving different student clubs and organizations, along with a school-level social marketing approach geared toward positive student and staff interactions.