with the data-based, functional assessment problem-solving process, Tier 2 instructional and intervention approaches were emphasized. Reinforcing the importance of using a problem solving-consultation-intervention service delivery model, it is critical that all schools have professional (related services and other) support staff who are trained and available to consult with classroom teachers to help deliver the Tier 2 supports and programs. In addition, all districts should know what mental health professionals and agencies are available in their communities to provide the intensive interventions and wrap-around services needed by some students at the Tier 3 level of need.

A number of important principles have been infused throughout the discussions on social, emotional, and behavioral intervention in this chapter:

1. You can’t motivate a student out of a skill deficit.
2. Students do not learn behavioral interventions through discovery learning.
3. Students must be taught, must learn, and must master most behavioral interventions prior to implementation, at least in the following areas:
   a. the language (verbal, nonverbal, symbolic),
   b. the expectations, and
   c. the contingencies.
4. Most skill instruction involves cognitive scripts that translate into behavioral skills.
5. Skill mastery occurs when students can demonstrate their skills under conditions of emotionality.
6. Most emotional behavior is conditioned.
7. Incentives and consequences only motivate when they are meaningful and powerful to the student.
8. Sometimes, incentives and consequences compete with each other—especially when students triangulate with adults and peers.
9. When inconsistency is the underlying reason for a student’s difficulties, the intervention must be implemented past the history of inconsistency.
10. Intervention plans should be completely written, planned, resourced, and trained for prior to implementation.