used at a Tier 1 or Tier 2 level. Unless trained and experienced, general education teachers need the consultative support of a behavioral or mental health specialist when considering and implementing these interventions.

### Positive Reinforcement.

The goal of this intervention is to motivate and increase positive, prosocial, and other appropriate or replacement behaviors. Positive reinforcement involves a tangible or intangible, extrinsic or intrinsic thought, event, or object that follows or is contingent on a behavior, and that helps to increase the frequency, duration, or intensity of that behavior over a period of time or in the future. Reinforcers occur naturally or are delivered, by design, in schedules of reinforcement. The basic reinforcement schedules focus on how many desired behaviors have occurred (frequency), how long they have occurred (duration), or how quickly they have occurred (latency). For behaviors that are measured by their frequency, reinforcement may be scheduled after every behavior (a continuous schedule), consistently after a specific number of behaviors (a fixed ratio schedule), or after a specific average number of behaviors (a variable ratio schedule). Comparably, for behaviors measured by duration, reinforcement may be scheduled continuously, or in either fixed or variable interval formats. For behaviors related to latency, reinforcement typically is scheduled by how quickly the target behavior occurs with a goal of reinforcing progressively quicker behavioral responses over time.

Positive reinforcement interventions are used for students who are not motivated to demonstrate appropriate behavior or who are motivated to demonstrate inappropriate behavior. In order for positive reinforcement to work, the student needs to have mastered the desired or expected behavior, and the positive (extrinsic or intrinsic) reinforcement, or incentives, need to be meaningful and powerful to the student. Over time and by strategically varying the reinforcement schedules, positive reinforcement interventions should result in more automatic or self-motivated behavior. At the Tier 2 level especially, it is the strategic use and progression of different incentives and reinforcement schedules—matched to a specific student’s behavioral and reinforcement history, status, current conditions, and needs—that most determine the success of this intervention.

In order to implement this intervention effectively, the teacher, behavioral consultant or specialist, or mental health practitioner should follow a specific sequence of steps: