emotional and behavioral paralysis and inability to escape from the continued or additional victimizations. Critically, these circumstances may explain a student’s current state of TTBHHPA affairs as well as why some students are unable to respond to strategic or intensive interventions—though they are the best ones under the circumstances.

Relative to intervention, for the more personal special situations that impact a student’s social, emotional, or behavioral status or interactions and that cannot be undone (e.g., a student’s past emotional or sexual abuse), instruction and interventions that teach the student cognitive-behavioral coping skills and processes must be included in the plan. In addition, for those circumstances that are situational in nature and that can be addressed or resolved (e.g., being homeless, not having positive role models, not having appropriate clothing), the plan should include the needed services, supports, resources, and implementation steps to resolve the situation and then the approaches needed to help the student cope with any physical, social, emotional, or behavioral effects of the situation. Critically, while resolution and coping interventions are necessary, they may not fully resolve all of the social-emotional impact of previous traumas, life circumstances, or other unique special situations. Indeed, some individuals live with the effects of these traumas throughout their lives. At the same time, the lack of complete healing does not invalidate the need for these important interventions.

**Analyzing Fights.** Across the TTBHHPA continuum and as a subset of physical aggression, fighting is somewhat unique in its level of emotional intensity and interpersonal conflict. At the same time, it is another excellent example of why this continuum is considered a special situation and why it includes the peer group as its own domain. Moreover, consistent with this section on problem solving, the need to analyze the dynamics underlying any fight once again demonstrates the important link between problem analysis and the strategic interventions that will prevent its reoccurrence.

In analyzing most in-school fights, staff and students typically agree that certain characteristics typically are present:

- Most fights occur in a common area of the school—in a hallway or bathroom, in the cafeteria, or on the playground.