coerce, or control student behavior. And it is more about a recognition that schools are successful when staff and students focus on communication, collaboration, caring, and celebration than when administrators focus on office discipline referrals and school suspensions or expulsions. When I began to write this book, I knew that I needed to be comprehensive, yet practical; visionary, yet realistic. I needed to present a blueprint that not only could be adapted to different schools and situations, but that also outlined the underlying science that makes it all work. Finally, I knew that I needed to reflect more on the practical insights of the 100,000-plus educators with whom I have worked across the country than on the theoretical discussions and debates that occurred when I was at the university.

Hopefully, as I complete the last sentences of this book, I have been successful. But if I have had any degree of success, I expect it is because I have tried to tell a story throughout this book. Briefly, the story is embedded in ten chapters:

- **Chapter 1** (Integrating a Schoolwide Positive Behavioral Support System [PBSS] Blueprint Into an Effective Schools Process) provides an overview of an evidenced-based Positive Behavioral Support System (PBSS) and integrates it into an effective school and schooling model that has been implemented in hundreds of schools across the country. This schoolwide PBSS involves students, staff, administration, and parents who work together (a) to teach and reinforce students’ interpersonal, social problem-solving, conflict prevention and resolution, and emotional coping skills; (b) to create and maintain positive, safe, supportive, and consistent school climates and settings; and (c) to strengthen and sustain school and district capacity such that the entire process becomes an inherent part of their school improvement planning and success.

- **Chapter 2** (School Readiness and the Steps for PBSS Implementation) focuses on the organizational and motivational readiness and the strategic planning processes needed to begin a schoolwide PBSS initiative.

- **Chapter 3** (The School Discipline/PBSS and Other Committees: Effective Team and Group Functioning) discusses the creation of a shared leadership approach and committee structure in a school that facilitates the