With a good orientation to the Behavioral Matrix process and attention to the definitions on the forms, most grade-level colleagues agree on 85% to 95% of the items. This allows the school discipline/PBSS committee representative, who usually chairs the grade-level meeting, to emphasize the high degree of consensus at the beginning of the team meeting, increasing the potential that the items on the discussion list can be constructively discussed. If there is less than 85% agreement on the items, the representative must decide how to strategically approach the meeting, consulting with other colleagues or administrators to get their advice. Indeed, when there is a high percentage of items on the discussion list or when it is common knowledge that there are group process issues within a team, an administrator may assign an outside individual or two to lead the Phase 1 meeting, thus taking the grade-level representative out of the middle of a potentially difficult situation.

During the actual grade-level meeting, it is important that all teams follow the effective meeting processes discussed in Chapter 3. While the goal of the meeting is to synthesize and finalize all of the Behavioral Matrix forms, this can be accomplished in different ways. What is essential, however, is that everyone should have access to all of the data, and everyone should feel comfortable discussing any individual item. Ultimately, participants will need to resolve all of the items on the discussion list (e.g., by consensus, a voice vote, a secret ballot) and any others of concern. If, however, there still are items that are so controversial that agreements are impossible, these can be placed on a list that will be reviewed and discussed later by the school discipline/PBSS committee and administration during Phase 2.

At times, administrators will make executive decisions and place disputed items somewhere on the matrix. At other times, especially when a matrix is first being developed by a grade-level team, these items are simply tabled until the team has used the matrix for three months or more. At that point, given the experience of actually using the matrix, some disputed items are no longer controversial. In the final analysis, if three or four items on any matrix level need to be tabled, there typically is little or no functional impact on staff or student implementation.

## Phase 2: At the School Discipline/PBSS Committee