Finally, the coordination and collaboration between school and district facilitates time-, cost-, and resource use efficiency, implementation integrity, and return-on-investment. Thus, while classroom teachers and support staff are the day-to-day PBSS implementers, the availability of resources and more intensive consultative support at the school and district levels facilitates implementation, maximizes momentum, and strengthens sustainability. This chapter focuses on the organizational variables and strategic planning processes needed when a school begins to consider a PBSS initiative. As such, we will begin with the end in mind by revisiting the most typical PBSS outcomes for a school and then describing a four-year implementation blueprint and how to prepare for its execution. Given the depth and breadth of this blueprint, this chapter is probably best read now and then reviewed after reading the remaining chapters in this book. In addition, it is essential to recognize how many individuals, groups, and committees will participate in the activities outlined here. Indeed, a schoolwide PBSS depends on schoolwide and district involvement. Thus, through this blueprint, important processes and activities are highlighted as well as how and where to link with district administrators and other resource professionals to maximize success.

While this PBSS blueprint is presented from a start-up perspective, schools that have successfully begun other more limited positive behavioral support programs can use this chapter to identify where and why they have been successful and what important value-added elements are needed to extend and strengthen their programs to a complete level of comprehensive implementation. This information also might help schools with unsuccessful programs or programs that have prematurely hit a plateau or an implementation wall to identify initial missteps, existing gaps, or activities that need to be revisited.

## GOALS OF A SCHOOLWIDE POSITIVE BEHAVIORAL SUPPORT SYSTEM

One of the first things that school staff members should do when beginning a new PBSS initiative is to think about (a) their desired or expected PBSS-related student, staff, and school goals and outcomes; (b) the current status