teach predominantly at one grade level, the middle school may develop separate sixth, seventh, and eighth grade matrices. If the sixth grade students are at a different functional level of social, emotional, and behavioral development than the seventh and eighth grade students, if the school physically separates the sixth graders from the other students, or if a sixth grade academy approach is being used, the middle school may have a sixth grade matrix that is separate from a merged Grade 7/8 matrix. Finally, for most high schools, a separate Grade 9 and a merged Grades 10–12 Behavioral Matrix is most typical.

As emphasized below, there is a high degree of overlap in where individual items are placed on different matrices as they progress from grade level to grade level. At the same time, grade-level teachers need to consistently use their own matrix so that they are responsive to the developmental and maturational differences across students.

## THE COMPONENTS WITHIN THE BEHAVIORAL MATRIX

Because it specifies the social, emotional, and behavioral expectations and interactions that contribute to student self-management and positive, safe, prosocial, and productive classroom and school settings, the Behavioral Matrix is the “heart” of the PBSS. This is one reason why the Behavioral Matrix is developed during Pre-implementation Year 1 (see Chapter 2) as one of the first functional, visible elements of the PBSS. Structurally, the Behavioral Matrix has four related quadrants (see Figures 4.1 and 4.2): (a) the specific behavioral expectations in the classroom for the specific grade level covered by a particular matrix and the universal schoolwide behavioral expectations in the different common areas of the school (Quadrant I) that are connected with (b) setting-specific positive responses, incentives, and rewards (Quadrant II); and (c) the four different intensity levels of inappropriate student behavior (Quadrant III) connected with (d) the research-based corrective responses, consequences, or administrative responses focused on changing students’ behavior in the future (Quadrant IV). Briefly, the four Quadrant III levels are Intensity I: annoying behaviors; Intensity II: disruptive or interfering behaviors; Intensity III: