watch the space in front of you and to your right and left (Knoff, 2007e). What else is needed? Clearly, there is no advantage in stating these expectations more globally by asking students to “be safe, be responsible, and be respectful.” Indeed, these more global expectations (i.e., safety, responsibility, respect) are higher-ordered constructs that are not cognitively understood by preschool and elementary students and that are not interpreted similarly by secondary students (or even adults). Students need expectations that are behaviorally specific. Global constructs create interpretation issues and detract from the target behaviors that need to be performed.

During these discussions, the committee also decides whether certain common areas need to be subdivided into smaller phases or areas with more phase- or area-specific expectations. For example, while behavioral expectations in the hallway and bathroom, respectively, can be communicated using one set of expectations, those in the cafeteria and on the playground vary by where students are within those settings. Indeed, in the cafeteria, there are different expectations when students are (a) in line, (b) getting their food and exiting the serving area, (c) eating at their tables, (d) cleaning up their tables, and (e) exiting from the room. On the playground, there are different expectations when students are (a) going out, (b) playing, and (c) coming in. Moreover, there are different expectations for different playground equipment, when playing certain games, or when moving from one area to another. Figure 4.4 provides some examples of behavioral expectations in four different common areas. Because of the importance of the common school areas as special situations (see Chapter 1), they are discussed further in Chapter 6.

At the end of the Phase 2 meeting, the grade-level representatives prepare to discuss the questions, recommendations, and decisions that have been made with their grade-level colleagues at the Phase 3 grade-level meetings. An additional outcome from all of the Phase 2 discussions might be the identification of universal classroom expectations across the entire building and a schoolwide positive incentive, reward, and celebration program. If this occurs, this also will need to be discussed during Phase 3, and a commitment from all or most of the grade levels will be needed. All of this, again, reinforces the benefits of having grade-level representation on the school discipline/PBSS committee as information is seamlessly shared from Phase 1 to Phase 2 and from Phase 2 to Phase 3, and as the