hallway, the problem might be solved by putting posters up on the walls in strategic places reminding students of the hallway expectations, and possible incentives and consequences (materials and activities).
- Rather than allow students to crowd some hallways because they need to visit their lockers to retrieve books and other materials, the students’ lockers might be strategically separated across and within grade levels across the school, grade-level students might be allowed to visit their lockers during alternating periods during the day, or classrooms might be reorganized to decrease the amount of travel for students between classes and to increase the presence and proximity of their own teachers during passage (time, scheduling, deployment, and logistics).
- Rather than only use school staff to patrol the hallways, the school might train and use students from different clubs or organizations to take turns being hallway helpers to remind their peers to demonstrate appropriate behavior (people and professional development).
- Rather than pool the monthly data on all of the students sent to the principal’s office for hallway offenses, the administration might reprogram its database and adapt its office referral forms and process to track the specific hallways with the highest number of offenses so that the problem analysis can isolate the right hallways, students, times of the day, and staff for intervention (technology).

In summary, it takes knowledge, skills, collaboration, motivation, and effort to conduct a Special Situation Analysis. However, when done by staff members who have the expertise, the time and resources, and the commitment and cooperation of their administration and colleagues, the return on investment has a strong upside in that existing problems can be solved, and the solutions can be sustained over long periods of time. To best accomplish this, it is recommended that a subcommittee of the school discipline/PBSS committee be trained and responsible for a school’s Special Situation Analysis process. When needed, it is important that this subcommittee have permission to use out-of-school experts from other schools, or at the district, community, region, state, or national levels. Finally, it is essential that subcommittee members understand the differences between interventions that stabilize a special situation and those that resolve it.