In Phase 2, the school discipline/PBSS committee reviews each of the completed grade-level matrices, especially analyzing which items are on the Intensity I, II, and III forms from grade level to grade level (e.g., comparing the Intensity II items identified by a middle school’s sixth, seventh, and eighth grade team, respectively). This is done to make sure that there is a logical, developmental progression of items at the same intensity level across adjacent grades. Indeed, at times, a school may have one grade level that is behaviorally more lenient or punitive than its adjacent grade-level teams. By looking across the completed forms, this phenomenon can be caught, and corrective feedback can be given to a specific grade level during Phase 3.

During this part of the meeting, the school’s administrators also analyze the different behavioral matrices to ensure that each item is assigned to the most appropriate intensity level. While the building principal is ultimately responsible for certifying all of the behavioral matrices, he or she especially needs to attend to items that are sensitive from a legal, regulatory, district policy, and community or public relations perspective. Typically, administrators make changes at either the Intensity II or III level where they move (a) an Intensity II behavior to Intensity III status (e.g., to ensure that periodic teasing does not progress to persistent teasing); or (b) an Intensity III behavior to Intensity II status (usually because they believe that the behavior should be or is better handled, for example, in the classroom than in the principal’s office). When administrative changes are made to items on a matrix, staff should receive an explanation so that they are sensitized to the issues at hand. Moreover, when an Intensity III behavior is moved to an Intensity II level, staff should discuss how they are going to handle the behavior in the classroom and identify what resources they may need to be successful.

The Phase 2 meeting is also when the school discipline/PBSS committee completes the first draft of the behavioral expectations and incentives or consequences for the different common areas of the school. When discussing this, the committee needs to task analyze the primary goal(s) in each area and specify the desired behaviors (see Chapter 6). For example, when walking down the hall, the goal is to safely walk from point A to point B in a calm and quiet (or silent, if desired) manner. Thus, the almost universal hallway expectations are (a) eyes forward, (b) hands by your sides, (c) mouth/voice quiet or silent, (d) walk to the right, and (e)