has the most meaning and potential impact on each student. Relative to impact, the consequence that motivates the quickest, largest, and longest lasting change toward appropriate behavior should be chosen, recognizing that some students will receive different consequences even for the same inappropriate behavior.

In general, the mildest consequence needed to motivate a change of behavior should be used. If a major consequence is used to respond to a minor offense, then students may become angry at the inequity, refuse to accept responsibility and change their future behavior. They also may become accustomed to the more extreme consequence, requiring the same intensity in order to respond in the future. Thus, a school’s accountability system should have a continuum of consequences and responses that are matched to different intensities of inappropriate behavior, from annoying to disruptive to antisocial to dangerous. As noted earlier, students will need to understand that while consequences are chosen to match the intensity of the offense, different students may receive different consequences at times.

9. If consequences are used, students must be held accountable for both their inappropriate and their (absent) appropriate behavior once they are finished. Thus, they need to correct or make amends for their inappropriate behavior and practice or demonstrate the absent or expected appropriate behavior. When consequences are needed, this combination of consequences, restitution, and positive practice is the formula that holds students accountable and responsible for appropriate behavior.

For performance deficit students especially, accountability must accompany motivation. That is, students who demonstrate inappropriate behavior still must demonstrate the appropriate behavior, even if after the fact. Our mantra here is, “If you consecrate, you must educate.” Thus, if students demonstrate an inappropriate behavior, there should be a consequence. As noted earlier, after the consequence is over, students should correct or remediate their inappropriate behavior (e.g., by apologizing, cleaning or repairing an affected area, or completing community service activities). They also need to return to the setting where the offense originally occurred and practice or demonstrate the appropriate behavior at least three times.