* have meetings that are consistently attended by at least 80% of members;
* have agreed-upon meeting expectations and processes for making decisions; and
* publicly post minutes or summaries of all meetings that are available to all school staff within two to three days following each meeting.

## Effective Meeting Processes (Branigan & Jones, 2006; Conzemius & O’Neill, 2002).

All committees adhere to or demonstrate these effective practices:

* An agenda is prepared and distributed before each meeting.
* Members arrive on time for the meeting and stay until the meeting is over.
* The meeting starts and ends on time.
* The chair and others with assignments or reports are prepared.
* Team members adhere to the ground rules and norms agreed upon and needed for effective team meetings.
* Meeting agendas are clearly defined, are understood by all members, and relate in a meaningful way to the team’s overall goals and objectives.
* The committee chair and others with relevant responsibilities (e.g., timekeepers, recorders, group process observers) effectively manage the meeting and other interactional processes.
* Committee discussions are on-task, relevant, focused, and concise and help to accomplish committee and meeting goals.
* Information is presented so that it is understood by everyone, and committee members are comfortable asking clarifying questions.
* Committee members know in advance how different decisions will be made (e.g., by simple majority vote or consensus, or by the chair with member input), and decisions are made in a collaborative fashion.
* Tasks are assigned to individuals who have the ability to complete them, with clear and realistic goals and timelines. For lengthy or complex tasks, specific action plans are developed.
* Committee members know what they are expected to do to continue the team’s work between meetings and in preparation for the next meeting.