student to avoid performing the inappropriate behavior.
2. Complete a functional assessment of the behavior, including a history of when, where, how often, and with whom the behavior has occurred in the past, while determining why the inappropriate behavior is occurring (e.g., emotional control problems, attention, power or control, revenge, escape, etc.).
3. Through this functional assessment, determine the baseline frequency of inappropriate behavior across a specific period of time (e.g., per hour, per period, per day).
4. Validate that the target student has mastered the appropriate behaviors that will help him or her to be successful in multiple settings and under multiple conditions of concern (if mastery has not occurred, instruction is needed).
5. Ensure that the intervention’s prerequisites exist: a grade-level Behavioral Matrix, a designated time-out chair, a coordinated Level 3 time-out teacher and a Level 4 location, and the time-out log and tracking pass for the Level 3 and 4 time-out.
6. Teach and role-play to mastery the time-out process with the student (and classroom); ensure that he or she understands the language, expectations, contingencies, and teacher, student, and administrator responses.
7. Develop a monitoring, charting, and evaluation protocol (using the time-out log and tracking pass), and explain it to the student.
8. Transfer the training, implement, and apply.
9. On a weekly (or more frequent, as needed) basis, meet with the student to evaluate his or her progress and discuss future targets and reinforcers.
10. Continue to evaluate the intervention over time.

To summarize, when time-out is used (inappropriately) as a punishment, it often is implemented in a retributitional manner (i.e., an eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth), the student is sentenced to a certain (or progressive) amount of time (sometimes not specified) in the time-out chair, the sentenced time typically extends beyond the teachable moment, and when the time is served, the student returns to his or her seat without needing to perform any positive practice actions relative to accountability. Using the recommended educational process, the student is taught and understands the