- Setting behavioral expectations
- Identifying social, emotional, and behavioral skills
- Teaching skills to mastery
- Motivating the use of skills
- Maintaining student accountability for demonstrated behavior
- Maintaining consistency

Source: Project ACHIEVE Press. Dr. Howie Knoff (author).

Relative to student competency and self-management, these scientific principles emphasize the importance of teaching, prompting, positively reinforcing, and helping students to internalize appropriate social, emotional, and behavioral skills. Relative to inappropriate behavior, these principles emphasize the importance of communicating and differentially responding to the intensity or severity of the behavior; holding students accountable for both inappropriate and expected, appropriate behavior; and taking actions that decrease or eliminate future inappropriate behavior and increase future appropriate behavior. Thus, when inappropriate behavior occurs, the goal is to positively change students’ future behavior, not simply to punish or deliver consequences. As noted, these scientific principles are embedded in the seven goals and the six components of the PBSS process.

**The Primary Goals of a Schoolwide PBSS Process.** While the ultimate goal of a PBSS is student social, emotional, and behavioral competency and self-management, there are a number of complementary student, staff, and school goals.

**Student Goals:**  
Student social, emotional, and behavioral competency and self-management as demonstrated by