- *Remediation* involves strategies that teach students specific, usually prerequisite, skills to help them master broader curricular, scope and sequence, or benchmark objectives.
- *Accommodations* change conditions that support student learning—such as the classroom setting or setup, how and where instruction is presented, the length of instruction, the length or time frame for assignments, or how students are expected to respond to questions or complete assignments. Accommodations can range from the informal ones implemented by a classroom teacher to the formal accommodations required by and specified on a 504 Plan (named for the federal statute that covers these services).
- *Modifications* involve changes in curricular content—its scope, depth, breadth, or complexity.

Remediations, accommodations, and modifications typically are implemented in general education classrooms by general education teachers, although they may involve consultations with other colleagues or specialists to facilitate effective implementation. At times, these strategies may be implemented in “pull-out,” “pull-in,” or co-taught instructional skill groups so that larger groups of students with the same needs can be helped. If target students do not respond to the strategically chosen approaches within these three areas or if their needs are more significant or complex, approaches from the next three PASS areas may be needed:

- *Strategic interventions* focus on changing students’ specific academic skills or strategies, their motivation, or their ability to comprehend, apply, analyze, synthesize, or evaluate academic content and material. Strategic interventions typically involve multidisciplinary assessments, as well as formal Academic Intervention or Individualized Education plans (AIPs or IEPs).
- *Compensatory approaches* help students to compensate for disabilities that cannot be changed or overcome (e.g., being deaf or blind, or having physical or central nervous system or neurological disabilities). Often combined with assistive supports, compensatory approaches help students to accomplish learning outcomes, even though they cannot learn or demonstrate specific skills within those outcomes. For example, for students who will never learn to decode sounds and