including those related to stabilization, security, triage, casualty, fatality, off-school site evacuation, and parental or family reunification.  

In the end, while schools need to incorporate crisis prevention into their PBSS planning, procedures, and activities, crises do occur. Given this, schools and districts need to prepare for the different categories of and specific crises that may occur and factor in the needed procedures when they occur with advanced, minimal, or no notice. During a crisis, the ultimate goals are (a) to minimize the impact of the crisis for those directly and indirectly involved; (b) to stabilize the situation as quickly as possible after the crisis has passed; and (c) to provide physical and emotional services and support in the aftermath. Relative to this latter point, schools, districts, and communities need to implement post-crisis responses as quickly as possible. This should address the immediate post-crisis needs of students, staff, and their families as well as these individuals’ needs in the days, weeks, months, and years (e.g., on the anniversary dates) to follow.  

## SUMMARY  

This chapter focuses on setting-specific special situations at the prevention, problem-solving, and crisis management levels. Relative to prevention, ways to organize schools, staff, and students such that common school areas are positive, safe, and secure were presented. This included attention to five specific Special Situation domains—the student, teacher and staff, environmental, incentive and consequence, and resource and resource utilization domains—and the goals of building and sustaining effective common school area interactions and minimizing the number of challenging behaviors and the intensity of critical events in those areas. Relative to problem solving, ways to conduct Special Situation Analyses were discussed, emphasizing the importance of analyzing why certain special situations are occurring so that successful, multifaceted strategic or intensive interventions are identified and implemented. Relative to crisis management, the necessary components of an effective crisis management process and plan were outlined.  

This chapter also addressed ways to conduct safety audits, complete common school area screenings, and organize an EOP. Finally, the