- Stop and Think!
- Are you going to make a Good Choice or Bad Choice?
- What are your Choices or Steps?
- Do It!
- Good Job!

The Stop and Think step is a self-control, impulse control, and self-management step designed to classically condition (à la Pavlov) students to take the time necessary to calm down and think about how they want to handle different social, emotional, or behavioral situations. The Good Choice or Bad Choice step is an operant conditioning step (à la Skinner) that motivates students to consciously select the choices they make and the behaviors they exhibit. Typically, teachers prompt students, sometimes using the grade-level Behavioral Matrix, as to the positive outcomes or reinforcements that will result when they make a good choice. Conversely, students are guided to consider the negative outcomes or consequences that will occur if they make a bad choice. These potential positive or negative reinforcements are designed to motivate students to make a good choice.

The What are your Choices or Steps? step uses cognitive-behavioral psychology and mediational learning strategies to help organize, prepare, and guide students to think about steps needed to execute their appropriate behavior before enacting it. This is where teachers teach the specific skills scripts for each Stop & Think skill so that students learn and are able to demonstrate (in the fourth step of this process) their good choices—that is, their prosocial behaviors. There are two types of skill scripts—scripts that teach social skills in a step-by-step sequential fashion (step skills) and scripts where students consider and select one of a number of possible good choices (choice skills). For example, the following directions skill script is an example of a step skill because there is only one correct sequence that will result in successful behavior:

1. Listen to the direction.
2. Ask yourself if you understand the direction (if not, ask a question).
3. Repeat the steps of the direction silently to yourself.
4. Get ready to follow the direction.