or does not exist are made (a false-positive versus a false-negative conclusion, respectively), when they are inaccurate.

* As much as possible, assessments should be conducted in the settings where the concerns or problems exist, and the people, curricula, materials, and circumstances most relevant to the problem should be reflected in the assessment process to the greatest degree possible.
* In order to be valid, assessments first must be reliable. However, even when valid, assessment is conducted within a context of probabilities. That is, assessment results reflect a probability that two circumstances (as reflected in a hypothesis) are related. Rarely is there a 100% level of assurance that two circumstances or conditions will always coexist or be causally related.

In the end, assessment blends science, insight, experience, objectivity, and implementation integrity. When guided by the principles above, assessment has a high probability of accurately confirming or rejecting the hypotheses generated to explain a social, emotional, or behavioral concern. When accurate hypotheses are confirmed, we are closer to selecting the best intervention approaches so that the concern is resolved and student success is established.

## Step 5: Designing Interventions and Writing the Intervention Plans

Once one or more hypotheses have been accepted, the teacher and designated consultant link them directly to relevant instructional or intervention approaches. For confirmed hypotheses in the school, teacher or instructional, or curricular areas, these approaches typically involve effective school, schooling, instructional, or curricular practices—many that are embedded in the PASS or PBSS blueprints, respectively. For confirmed hypotheses in the peer or student areas, the instructional or intervention approaches should be scientifically or research based (to the greatest degree possible) and focused on changing targeted academic or social, emotional, or behavioral outcomes. Note that when there are student-specific physical or physiological, chemical or biochemical, hormonal or genetic, or neurological or cognitive conditions that cannot be treated, the approaches will need to involve one or more of the other domains—most notably, those