needed by those directly and indirectly affected by the crisis so that they can reconcile and resolve their involvement, experiences, and reactions on social, emotional, or behavioral levels. They also include the preventative and strategic interventions needed, for example, when crisis anniversary dates or other situations trigger emotional memories or reactions. This information is discussed further in Chapter 6.

**Community and Parent Training and Outreach.** Finally, this component focuses on increasing the involvement of community partners and the school’s parents, as relevant, in all of the areas described above. Specific to community involvement, schools need to identify and use the expertise and resources available (e.g., from medical, social service, governmental, law enforcement, and other community agencies along with businesses, the faith community, and local or regional foundations) to reinforce and support their discipline, behavior management, and school safety programs. In a more direct way, parents especially need to be involved in the development and implementation of their school’s social skills program, its schoolwide accountability system, and the special situation components within its PBSS initiative. In this way, parents and school staff can collectively give students explicit and consistent messages to reinforce their social and behavioral responsibilities and the fact that they will be held accountable for both appropriate and inappropriate behavior. Beyond this, school, community, and parent partnerships are critically important when behaviorally challenging students exist. Here, parent involvement is essential to the development and implementation of a coordinated treatment or intervention program, while community resources are often integral to the depth, breadth, and success of the identified program.

## THE THREE TIERS WITHIN THE PBSS BLUEPRINT

When students do not respond to the preventative strategies within the six domains above, data-based functional assessments are conducted and linked to strategic social, emotional, or behavioral instruction or intervention approaches. These approaches are designed to address the underlying reasons for the problems and to prepare staff for effective and consistent