decreasing inappropriate interactions, reactions, or behaviors and replacing them with appropriate ones.

Typically, stimulus control prompts involve verbal or nonverbal prompts between a teacher (or other adult) and a target student that trigger a desired skill or behavior. Examples of teacher or adult prompts might include a specific word or phrase agreed upon by the teacher and the student, a finger snap or shoulder touch, a nonverbal gesture, or putting a cue card on a student’s desk. Through behavioral training, these external prompts are transferred to situational or environmental cues (e.g., being in a specific setting, seeing a peer’s specific behavioral response, feeling a specific emotion) that trigger the target student’s appropriate social, emotional, or behavioral response. The training involves skills-based instruction—using the teach, model, role-play, performance feedback, and transfer of training steps previously discussed—that links or conditions specific responses to specific triggers. Eventually, the goal is for students to recognize and respond to specific conditions or stimuli with appropriate, self-managed behavior. Significantly, when teachers learn and use the same prompts or cues used when students are taught this intervention by behavioral intervention or mental health specialists at the Tier 2 level, then the generalization or transfer of training process typically occurs more quickly, naturally, and successfully for the students involved.

Still other students need skill-based interventions to facilitate their emotional control. For example, one key to emotional control is a student’s ability to maintain a physiological level of control so that he or she still can make appropriate decisions and choices. When students are emotionally out of control, this is actually a physiological state where the concentration of adrenaline in the bloodstream passes a specific threshold. In order to maintain self- or physiological control, some students need to learn how to relax in the face of emotional conditions or triggers (thereby keeping the adrenaline concentration below their thresholds). While many students learn how to do this as part of Tier 1 social, emotional, and behavioral training at school or at home, some students need more strategic training (Tier 2) with this, and others need more intensive therapy and even drug intervention (Tier 3). Whether at the Tier 2 or 3 levels, some students need progressive muscle relaxation training or therapy (Lopata, Nida, & Marable, 2006). This clinical intervention typically is implemented by trained mental health practitioners, and it helps students to immediately return to or maintain a