students, approximately 60% of whom were Caucasian, 30% African American, and 10% from other minority backgrounds. Jesse Keen’s mobility rate of new and withdrawn students also averaged 72%, and 87% of the student body received federally funded meals due to family poverty.

While the Project ACHIEVE partnership resulted in many significant outcomes in the school climate, staff development, student discipline and behavior management, academic achievement and intervention, and parent involvement areas (Knoff & Batsche, 1995), the results below are due most to the data-based problem solving process discussed in this chapter and instituted during the very first year of the project. Analyzing and averaging outcome data across ten years of implementation and using 1989 to 1990 data as a baseline, there were many significant results:

- There was a drop in the number of special education referrals from 10 referrals per 100 students in the school to an average of 3.9 referrals per 100 students (a 61% decrease) over ten years.
- Special education referrals averaged 3.68 referrals per 100 students for the first five years of the project (1990 to 1995) and increased only slightly to 4.10 referrals per 100 students during the next five years (1995 to 2000).
- There was a decrease in special education placements from 6 placements per 100 students during the baseline year to an average of 2.6 placements per 100 students (a 57% decrease) over ten years.
- Special education placements averaged 2.52 placements per 100 students for the first five years of the project and 2.73 placements per 100 students for the next five years.
- There was a 16% decrease in the number of office discipline referrals for students with disabilities from 73 referrals per 100 students to an average of 61 referrals per 100 students.
- Grade retentions decreased from 6 retentions per 100 students to an average of 3.6 retentions per 100 students over the ten-year implementation period (a 47% decrease).

# INTRODUCTION