Source: Project ACHIEVE Press. Dr. Howie Knoff (author).  

- Special situation hypotheses (Hypothesis #7) involve preventing or resolving the setting, peer, or student-related situation, or its social, emotional, or behavioral impact, to the greatest degree possible.  

While more specific instructional and intervention approaches are presented in Chapter 9, it must be recognized that virtually all of these approaches are implemented in one or more Instructional Environments somewhere (e.g., a general, special, or alternative education classroom). Thus, while these approaches are developed to directly address student-specific issues (student variables), they still involve teachers or other adults (teacher or instructional variables) and instructional or intervention approaches or treatments (curricular variables) that are applied to or with targeted students. This principle is reflected when linking the results of the problem analysis step with the seven high-hit student intervention areas (see Table 8.2).  

**The Academic or Behavioral Intervention Plan.** Once all of the instructional or intervention approaches are chosen, an intervention plan should be written before the implementation process begins. This is to ensure that a number of important prerequisite actions are taken before formal implementation:  

- Any needed parental, RTI², or administrative involvement or approvals are received, and any needed staff or student commitments are secured.  
- All relevant evidence-based interventions have been researched, reviewed, and selected.  
- All desired consultations with other experts, as needed, have occurred.  
- The intervention planning and prioritization process has been completed in a deliberate and decisive way.  
- Any required resources are obtained, and any implementation training is provided.  
- The student (and, perhaps, peer group) are briefed or trained on the intervention.  
- The classroom teacher, consultant, and significant others are all in agreement as to the intervention goals, steps, timelines, evaluations, and outcomes.