**Action 1.2: Fast-Track Training for All New Staff on PBSS Components.** During the staff preparation days prior to the new school year and during the first month of school, fast-track training in the year one PBSS components for all new staff occurs. If available, this training is coordinated with the training provided to another PBSS school in the district that is beginning its Implementation Year 1 start-up. Regardless, this training includes concurrent mentoring by the PBSS director, selected facilitators, the school discipline/PBSS committee representative at the new teacher’s grade level, and the new teacher’s first-year coach or mentor (if relevant).

**Action 1.3: Staff Training on Strategic Behavioral Interventions.** During the staff preparation days prior to the new school year and during the first month of school, the entire staff participates in a full-day in-service workshop on the more strategic, classroom-based behavioral interventions that can be applied and used with more challenging students who are only partially responding to the building-based social skills and accountability system (see Chapter 9).

**Action 1.4: Strategic Intervention Consultation Follow-Up.** During the two to three months following the strategic intervention in-service in Action 1.3, on-site technical assistance is provided using actual student cases to facilitate the implementation of these interventions for existing challenging students.

**Action 1.5: Staff Training on Crisis Prevention, Management, and Response.** During the winter or spring, staff members receive training, support, and practice in how to prevent and, as needed, respond to different crisis situations (see Chapters 6 and 7). Such situations might include weather-related disasters, student or staff accidents or deaths, student fights, shootings or other acts of violence on campus, and so on. This training also involves briefings on how to handle situations involving home-based physical or sexual abuse, student harassment, student suicide threats, and other life crises. Concurrent with this training is the identification of those contacts or resources within the school, district, and community for each of the situations discussed.