supports needed by students—not where specific interventions are delivered (e.g., inside or outside a general education classroom) or how many students (e.g., all, some, or few) are receiving them. The seven high-hit reasons involve four skill-related areas—skill deficits (Hypothesis #1), speed of acquisition (Hypothesis #2), transfer of training or generalization (Hypothesis #3), conditions of emotionality (Hypothesis #4); and three additional areas that relate to accountability, consistency, and special situations—motivation or performance deficits (Hypothesis #5), inconsistency (Hypothesis #6), and special situations (Hypothesis #7), respectively.

## STRATEGIC STUDENT SUPPORT AT THE TIER 2 LEVEL

The Tier 2 instructional or intervention approaches in this section are organized using the evidence-based skill, accountability, consistency, and special situations PBSS components discussed throughout this book (see Figure 9.1). The right side of Figure 9.1 outlines representative instructional or intervention approaches in the four skill areas, the accountability and motivation and the special situations areas above (consistency is embedded in all of these approaches). The left side of the figure reminds us that all strategic instructional or intervention approaches are linked to the data-based problem-solving process and, especially, the problem analysis phase.

**Peer or Adult Mentoring and Mediation.** The first Tier 2 approaches involve peer or adult mentoring or meditational programs. In general, mentoring programs connect students with a valued peer or adult who provides training, guidance, motivation, or consistency within the context of a close and positive relationship. Mediation programs are a bit more specialized as they help individual or groups of students address (usually) emotional feelings or situations by teaching or applying interpersonal relationship, social problem-solving, conflict resolution, or emotional coping skills or behaviors. Relative to students with Tier 2 needs, peer mentors or mediators may be older students who go to their school or other schools in the district. Adult mentors may be instructional or support staff employed in these students’ schools, volunteers who come to the school, or