# Knowing when to tell an adult about a school safety issue

**Criterion 3.** The skills program organizes its skills in a defined, progressive, yet flexible sequence (or suggested instructional calendar), recognizing that some skills are prerequisite and must be mastered before other more complex skills are taught. The sequence or calendar has built-in times where specific skills are revisited and reinforced across the school year, providing opportunities for distributed and extended practice (Cartledge & Milburn, 1995). As shown above, the Stop & Think Social Skills Program has a preferred sequence of ten core skills and ten advanced skills that have been field tested. While this sequence is preferred, it is not absolute. As long as teachers are mindful that some social skills are prerequisite to later skills, they can resequence skills to respond to specific behavioral goals, challenging classroom problems, or desired curricular or character education themes.

Beyond this, the Stop & Think Social Skills Program integrates the learning principles of massed and distributed practice into its process by reviewing and revisiting many social skills across the grade levels as well as during a particular school year. In doing this, the program is able to teach the same skill with higher, more developmentally appropriate expectations over time and ensure that the skills are applied in situationally appropriate ways (e.g., at different times of the school year and across different school years).

**Criterion 4.** The skills program uses a universal language that is easy for students to learn, facilitates cognitive scripting and mediation, and helps to condition prosocial behaviors and choices leading to progressively more automatic behavior (Ladd & Mize, 1983; Meichenbaum, 1977). Social skills in the Stop & Think Social Skills Program are taught using two essential processes: (a) a universal language or set of steps that facilitate the cognitive and physical conditioning of new behavior, and (b) a pedagogical approach that uses behavioral and social learning theory strategies to guide effective instruction.

The Stop & Think Social Skills Program uses a universal five-step language whenever a social skill is taught, reinforced, or implemented: