discipline/PBSS committee, the School Prevention, Review, and Intervention Team [SPRINT]), and the school’s administration.

**Action 2.1: Formation or Confirmation of the School Discipline/PBSS Committee and the Grade- and Building-Level SPRINT Teams and Structure.** The SLT reviews the school’s committee structure and establishes building-level school discipline/PBSS committee and grade- and building-level SPRINT teams if they do not yet exist (see Chapter 3). The discipline/PBSS committee will become responsible for guiding the implementation of the schoolwide PBSS process with the PBSS director. The SPRINT teams are the early intervention teams that implement the data-based functional assessment problem-solving process (see Chapter 8) when students do not academically or behaviorally respond to effective classroom instruction and classroom management.

**Action 2.2: Selection of the School Discipline/PBSS Committee Chair, Recording Secretary, and Members’ Terms of Office.** Supported by the administration, a committee chair (or co-chairs) of the school discipline/PBSS committee is (are) selected. If the PBSS project director is a member of the school’s staff, he or she will typically be the committee chair. The committee also selects a recording secretary, a monthly meeting time (although the committee may need to meet more frequently during start-up), and the terms of office for different committee members (see Chapter 3).

**Action 2.3: Completion of the Committee Mission, Role, and Function Document.** During the next weeks or months, the school discipline/PBSS committee completes its committee mission, role, and function statement or document (see Chapter 3). In this document are the committee’s mission, members, monthly meeting time and place, general and annual goals and objectives, fixed agenda items, and primary data and information sources.

Eventually, the school needs to integrate necessary school and district policies, practices, personnel, resources, waivers, and professional development into its three-year and next-year school improvement plan and have it approved at the district level.

**Action 2.4: Completion of a Comprehensive Needs Assessment and Resource Analysis.** With the PBSS director’s involvement, the SLT