development and on-site consultation and technical assistance. Under the leadership of the SCESC, four annual retreats were held for these teams each January—giving them an opportunity to solidify their collaborative efforts (both within and across districts) and to strengthen their capacity for more independent PBSS implementation.

When compared with baseline data, the schools reported the following outcomes over the first three years of implementation: (a) a 57% decrease in office discipline referrals, (b) a 47% decrease in grade retentions, and (c) a 57% decrease in placements of at-risk students into special education classrooms. Other improvements included increases in different ratings of positive school climate, teacher effectiveness relative to classroom-based interventions, and student behavior at home.

On the strength of these results, the SCESC was awarded a three-year federal counseling grant from the U.S. Department of Education in 2009 to expand Project ACHIEVE to all eight districts within the county.

# INTRODUCTION

Underlying the successful implementation of any schoolwide PBSS initiative are activities that directly relate to (a) strategic planning, organizational development, and resource and personnel management; (b) staff buy-in, professional development, and support; and (c) implementation integrity, evaluation, and continuous improvement. Beyond these elements, it is essential that the initiative include active staff involvement though shared leadership and other collaborative approaches. Ultimately, the success of any PBSS initiative is more dependent on the involvement and participation of the staff and students than on the expectations and oversight of district or school administrators.

In order to facilitate staff members’ ongoing commitment to a comprehensive, schoolwide PBSS initiative and to organize and sustain a school’s shared leadership activities, it is important to establish and maintain school-level committees that work seamlessly with grade-level (for elementary schools) or instructional-level (for secondary schools) teams. This chapter uses the effective schools blueprint from Chapter 1 to recommend and describe a school committee structure, focusing eventually