# RESPONDED TO WITH A CORRECTIVE ACTION OR A CONSEQUENCE

The goal of a classroom-based consequence is to communicate to students that their behavior is inappropriate and motivate them to decrease or eliminate their inappropriate behavior while increasing their appropriate, prosocial behavior. That is, consequences do not change behavior; they create the conditions that facilitate behavioral change. Critically, if a student has not learned and mastered a desired appropriate behavior, no amount of incentives or consequences will produce that behavior (because it does not exist). What may occur, instead, is that the skill deficit student becomes frustrated. This occurs because the student eventually realizes that there is no hope of earning the incentive and no hope of escaping the consequence. Over time, the frustration is displayed along a spectrum from anger, aggression, and acting out, to anxiety, low self-concept, and checking out.

*Done as a communication strategy for self-correction; not as a consequence.

Typically, there are a number of consequences at every grade level to best respond to Intensity II behaviors. As with identifying incentives (see above), the best consequences are generated by observing and interviewing students. Significantly, though, some of the best consequences involve taking away a student’s opportunity to earn an incentive or to participate in a preferred extracurricular activity. In this way, there is no physical or tangible loss of already-earned activities, points, or rewards, and students typically are more motivated to demonstrate the appropriate behavior so that they can regain the right to earn these incentives.

When delivering consequences, especially at the Intensity II level, teachers should be mindful of additional behavioral principles:

1. Students need to learn and understand all of the components, behavioral interactions, and contingencies that make up the Behavioral