contests where students have generated cost-effective solutions for common school area dilemmas. Significantly, when these solutions were implemented, not only were they effective, but the student body was more committed to ensuring their success.

Other schools have used parents, the Parent-Teacher Association (PTA), community or business partners, local and state foundations, and other out-of-district clubs or organizations to enhance their resources. This has resulted, for example, in the use of (a) a successful university cafeteria program in a public school’s cafeteria, (b) dogs in a local police unit’s K-9 division to reinforce positive playground behavior, and (c) a group of grandparents at a nearby church as check-in buddies for students coming into school each morning. Still other schools have involved high school students needing community service credits in their middle schools as hallway, library, and computer lab assistants.

Beyond the generation of new resources, schools also need to look at how they are using existing resources. For example, even when there are enough individuals to supervise, for example, a cafeteria, playground, or hallway, it is how they are deployed that really matters. Indeed, if the four supervisors on a playground are all huddled and talking together on a corner of the blacktop, the intended impact of their presence is not achieved. Instead, the playground could be zoned into three areas, and three of the four supervisors could be designated as zone captains who are responsible for constantly sweeping among, interacting with, and positively reinforcing or constructively correcting the students in their zone. The fourth supervisor could be designated as a free safety, responsible for moving randomly across all three zones when things are going well and for moving strategically to back up a specific zone captain when a challenging situation requiring more than 45 seconds to resolve occurs. In this latter role, the zone captain moves to directly address the situation in his or her zone, and the free safety replaces the captain by taking over the sweeping duties within the zone. The success of this approach is further enhanced when the staff members and students have both been trained and have practiced these maneuvers during the few weeks of every new school year, and when they know the specific prompts needed to vacate a zone if a prolonged or serious event occurs.

In the cafeteria, resources are enhanced when the food service and custodial staff become part of the behavior management team. In the