overcorrection approach) will be used—along with when, where, how, with whom, and how long the intervention will occur.

4. Develop a monitoring and evaluation protocol.
5. Discuss the entire situation with the student, including the inappropriate behavior, the appropriate behavior that should have occurred, what the overcorrection consequence will be, and how it will be monitored and evaluated.
6. Validate that the student has mastered the skill needed to perform the replacement behavior for the positive practice overcorrection approach, or the physical (and other) capacity to perform the remediation for the restitutional overcorrection approach.
7. Implement and evaluate the intervention.
8. Debrief the situation and intervention again with the student, emphasizing the expected future appropriate behavior as well as the potential consequences for a reoccurrence of the inappropriate behavior.

For both of these interventions, it is important that the overcorrections act not as punishments but as aversive conditions that are logically connected to the original offenses and that motivate the student to make appropriate choices in the future. Once again, it is important that these interventions be linked to the outcomes of a functional assessment. Finally, it is likely that students will resist or refuse to engage in this intervention. This should be anticipated, and responses to this resistance or other contingency plans need to be in place. If, for example, the student begins this intervention and then is allowed to default or discontinue it without being held fully accountable, this inconsistency may again strengthen the student’s inappropriate behavior and reinforce his or her success in resisting the process of behavioral change.

**Response Cost.** This intervention is designed to systematically decrease or eliminate mild to moderate inappropriate behavior by providing a student with a strategically selected number of tokens, points, or coupons that the student loses or must spend whenever he or she exhibits the targeted inappropriate behavior. The explicit goal for the student is to complete a specific period of time where he or she has one or more tokens remaining that can be cashed in for a desired reinforcement. The number of tokens