The last activity in Step 2 is to prioritize the clarified concerns and replacement behaviors. As very few students have only one academic or behavioral concern, prioritization is necessary in order for the data-based, functional assessment problem-solving process to move effectively and efficiently toward intervention success. Simplistically, intervention priorities can be determined by rank ordering the student concerns or targets for change by (a) intensity or severity, (b) interdependency or overlap, or (c) ease of success. When concerns are arranged by intensity, the teacher and consultant organize them from the most troubling, intense, problematic, or serious to the least. When arranged by interdependency, the concerns are prioritized by first targeting those that, if successfully resolved, would simultaneously help resolve other listed concerns. For example, interventions that increase students’ in-seat behavior may also resolve the same students’ negative peer interactions when they are out of their seats, their non-completion of academic work at their seat, their defiance when teachers direct them to reseat themselves, and their lack of academic skill mastery when they miss work due to the out-of-seat behavior.

Finally, the listed concerns or replacement behaviors can be arranged by how quickly or effortlessly they can be changed. Targeting intervention goals by ease of success often is done (a) to show teachers (or others, including the students themselves) that success is possible, especially when they are convinced that the student can never change, or (b) when there is a need for a strategic early victory that will help build the momentum for later more sustained success. While this approach often does not resolve the most pressing or pivotal student concerns, it can help establish the positive attitudes and beliefs that change can occur—attributions that are needed to eventually address the more complex or intense issues of concern.

## The Functional Assessment Process.

As the gap analysis proceeds and transitions into Step 3 (i.e., the development of hypotheses to explain the gap), the functional assessment process has actually begun. Whether a functional assessment is performed individually by a classroom teacher or with a colleague or consultant from the grade- or building-level SPRINT team, respectively, there are a series of common academic and behavioral assessment questions that help to guide this process. These questions are best organized into the three interdependent domains of the Instructional