13. Focus on skills and outcomes, not on hierarchies, power, and positions  
14. Create options for mutual (win-win) gain  
15. Ability to appropriately delay, at times, some decisions so that more options can be developed  
9. Respond to and use timelines or deadlines effectively  
24. Willing to model behavior  
25. Able to deal with problems and problematic colleagues  
8. Self- or independently motivated and enthusiastic  
16. Insist on using data and objective criteria to make decisions  
23. Able to set high, yet realistic, expectations  
6. Commitment to a staff or building agenda, not a personal agenda  

| 1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| Excellent | Very Good | Good | Fair | Poor |

Source: Project ACHIEVE Press. Dr. Howie Knoff (author).

The SSISC was developed by asking school staff from across the country to complete a longer, draft version of the survey. After a series of statistical analyses, three factors were identified for the resulting 25 items: Factor 1: Staff Understanding of the School’s Mission and Expectations (4 items); Factor 2: Staff Collaboration and Cohesion (8 items); and Factor 3: Effective Staff Practices and Interactions (13 items). Factor 1 evaluates staff members’ perceptions of their colleagues’ understanding of the school’s mission, and how the mission impacts instruction and instructional outcomes. Factor 2 evaluates staff members’ perceptions of their colleagues’ interpersonal and interprofessional collaboration and their commitment to professional growth, shared leadership, and staff cohesion. Factor 3 evaluates staff members’ perceptions of their colleagues’ focus on shared organizational goals, their commitment to contributing to and supporting others in meeting these goals, and their use of problem solving to identify new or needed changes when things are not going well.