be decreased more quickly over time, and the intervention’s complete success and fading can similarly occur more rapidly.  

The response cost lottery can be used when a group of students is involved in the intervention. Here, after the prescribed period of time, each student puts his or her remaining tokens into a lottery, which is used to select which students will receive a backup reinforcer. Assuming that students want to enter the largest number of tokens so they have the greatest probability of winning, students should demonstrate higher levels of more appropriate behavior more quickly. This again will result in the teacher being able to decrease the total number of tokens given to the students during the forthcoming time periods and a faster level of intervention success overall.  

Time-Out. This is a behavioral intervention that is used in most schools—especially at the elementary school level—to the degree that it could be considered a Tier 1 intervention. At the same time, schools rarely implement this scientifically based intervention in a consistent, strategic, and educative fashion, and the implementation typically is not consistent across grade-level teams, much less the entire building. Indeed, very few educators have been formally trained to understand how to apply the underlying scientific, behavioral principles that make the time-out process work or which behavioral problems are most responsive to this intervention. Instead, many use this intervention based on an oral history that has been passed down from one educator to another. For example, many educators believe that a student should stay in the time-out chair for the same number of minutes as his or her age—even though there is no research to support this. In addition, most educators do not have the student positively practice the replacement behavior as he or she is exiting from the time-out chair (thereby holding the student accountable for appropriate, expected behavior). Instead, most teachers let the student return to his or her homeroom chair simply after completing a specified amount of time in the chair.  

When used correctly and as scientifically designed (see Knoff, 2007b), time-out effectively discourages inappropriate student behavior, or it serves as a meaningful, powerful, and multilevel consequence if it does occur. In fact, where the time-out occurs extends from the homeroom classroom (Levels 1 and 2), to another teacher’s classroom (Level 3), to the principal’s