additional medically related information known by the school;
* contacting the parents to discuss the initial concerns, while also gathering pertinent information from them;
* interviewing previous teachers (and others) who have taught or worked with the student; and
* determining the need for classroom observations by someone skilled in that area.

All instructional and support staff in a school need to be trained to complete these steps and activities during the professional development process that should precede the implementation of a schoolwide RTI² process. At the same time, any staff person could still request assistance (e.g., from a school nurse in the medical area, from a counselor or social worker in the parent interview area) at any time in any of the areas above.

Once the information above has been collected, the teacher should better understand (a) the frequency, duration, or intensity of the current concerns, and whether they are occurring across time, people, settings, and situations; (b) whether the concerns about the student are new and shared by other current staff members; (c) if other colleagues have expressed similar concerns about the student in the past; and (d) what instructional or intervention services, supports, strategies, or programs the student has received in the past, and whether or not they were successful. More specifically, in determining the current functional status of the student, the teacher will identify and validate the student’s social, emotional, and behavioral skills, assets, and abilities, and the student’s behavioral progress and learning patterns over time. In collaborating with medical personnel, the presence or absence of relevant physical or physiological, chemical or biochemical, hormonal or genetic, neurological or cognitive, or other circumstances or events can be discerned or discounted. In meeting with the parents, the teacher can share his or her concerns; solicit information, perceptions, and assistance from them; and begin to build the strong, collaborative relationship that needs to be sustained throughout the problem-solving process. In addition, as appropriate, the teacher (or attending related services professional) can get parent permission to obtain relevant, out-of-district educational, medical, mental health, or other records, and to contact and discuss other professionals’ past or present involvement or treatment with the student.