Findings from three scientific reviews. Chicago, IL: Collaborative for Academic, Social, and Emotional Learning.

Pellegrini, A. D., Bartini, M., & Brooks, F. (1999). School bullies, victims, and aggressive victims: Factors relating to group affiliation and victimization in early adolescence. Journal of Educational Psychology, 91, 216–224.

Pöyhönen, V., Juvonen, J., & Salmivalli, C. (2010). What does it take to stand up for the victim of bullying? The interplay between personal and social factors. Merrill-Palmer Quarterly, 56, 143–163.

Raffaele, L., & Knoff, H. M. (1999). Improving home-school collaboration with parents of children at-risk: Organizational principles, perspectives, and approaches. School Psychology Review, 28, 448–466.

Rigby, K. (2000). Effects of peer victimization in schools and perceived social support on adolescent well-being. Journal of Adolescence, 23, 57–68.

Rigby, K. (2001). Health consequences of bullying and its prevention in schools. In J. Juvonen & S. Graham (Eds.), Peer harassment in school: The plight of the vulnerable and victimized (pp. 310–331). New York, NY: Guilford Press.

Rigby, K. (2002). Bullying in childhood. In P. K. Smith & C. H. Hart (Eds.), Blackwell handbook of childhood social development (pp. 549–568). Malden, MA: Blackwell.

Rosenfeld, S. (1987). Instructional consultation. Hillsdale, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates.

Sinclair, M., Hurley, C., Christenson, S., Thurlow, M., & Evelo, D. (2002). Connections that keep kids coming to school. In R. Algozzine & P. Kay (Eds.), Preventing problem behaviors: A handbook of successful prevention strategies. Thousand Oaks, CA: Corwin.

Skretta, J. (2007). Using walkthroughs to gather data for school improvement. Principal Leadership, 5, 16–23.

Sprick, R., & Garrison, M. (2008). Interventions: Evidence-based behavioral strategies for individual students (2nd ed.). Eugene, OR: Pacific Northwest.