1. Identify the target behaviors to decrease specifically.
2. Identify the replacement behaviors to increase or reinforce specifically.
3. Validate that the student has mastered the replacement behavior in the settings and conditions desired.
4. Teach the student
   a. the language (how you ignore or reinforce),
   b. the behavioral expectations, and
   c. the incentives and consequences (connect with the Behavioral Matrix).
5. Role-play to mastery.
6. Identify the short-term and long-term definitions of success.
7. Identify the student’s history of inconsistency and the time frame needed for short-term and long-term success.
8. Train the peer group (how to ignore or reinforce the student; their incentives and consequences).
9. Develop a monitoring and evaluation protocol.
10. Transfer the training, implement, and apply.
11. Evaluate and move to self-management.

As with most behavioral interventions, the goals, outcomes, contingencies, and interactions embedded in the planned ignoring approach need to be discussed by the teacher, student (and his or her parents), peer group (separately), and behavioral consultant or specialist or mental health practitioner. The student needs to understand that escalating inappropriate behavior will still be ignored, but it may involve an additional consequence or an office discipline referral (depending on the intensity of the escalation). Critically, if a primary reason underlying the inappropriate behavior involves the student wanting to be exited from the classroom (e.g., to escape a difficult assignment, to attain some bad boy or girl status within the peer group, to communicate some anger with parents or others) and not for attention, this intervention would not be used. Once again, this reinforces the importance of completing a functional assessment before prematurely moving to an intervention. Given this, and some other factors, the following questions should be asked before considering or implementing this intervention.