administrators, related service professionals (e.g., school psychologists, counselors, behavioral specialists), and general and special education teachers who, individually or as part of a team or committee, are responsible for developing, implementing, evaluating, and sustaining PBSSs. At the same time, a number of chapters (e.g., this chapter and Chapters 3, 4, 5, and 7) contain information that all classroom teachers should understand and be able to implement. Other chapters (e.g., this chapter and Chapters 6, 7, 8, and 9) are especially important for related service professionals.

This chapter introduces the six evidence-based components of an evidence-based PBSS along a three-tiered Response-to-Instruction and Intervention (RTI²) continuum that is embedded in an effective school and schooling model. Initially, the competency and self-management goal of the PBSS is described along with the effective schools model that includes the PBSS as one of its primary components.

## STUDENT COMPETENCY AND SELF-MANAGEMENT DEFINED

The ultimate goal of a PBSS is student social, emotional, and behavioral competency and self-management. While competency and self-management look different across the age span because of genetic, biological, and developmental factors, they are collectively defined as children’s or adolescents’ ability to

- be socially, emotionally, and behaviorally aware of themselves and others;
- demonstrate successful social, emotional, and behavioral interactions and skills; and
- effectively control their own emotions, so that appropriate proactive and prosocial behavior independently occurs.

Critically, competency and self-management exist along a continuum from social-emotional competency and self-management (i.e., how students feel) to cognitive-behavioral competency and self-management (i.e., what they think and then what they do). Using this cognitive-behavioral