2. Identify the behavioral goal or target specifically (i.e., the appropriate behavior to demonstrate or the inappropriate behavior to stop or eliminate).
3. Validate that the target students have mastered the target behavior in multiple settings and under multiple conditions (if mastery has not occurred, instruction is needed).
4. Discuss and identify with the group a range of possible meaningful and powerful tangible (actual or symbolic or exchangeable) and intangible, extrinsic and intrinsic reinforcers.
5. Choose the reinforcer to be received for the target behavior, determine the reinforcement schedule, and specify how the reinforcer will be delivered.
6. Role-play to mastery the behavior and reinforcement process (relative to the student, group, and teacher).
7. Prior to the implementation of this intervention, teach students in the group how to
   a. appropriately talk about and motivate each other’s appropriate behavior,
   b. monitor and provide appropriate positive and corrective prompts and feedback to each other and the target student, and
   c. deal with and effectively discuss or respond to times when they reach or do not reach a criterion for reinforcement.
8. Develop a monitoring and evaluation protocol.
9. Transfer the training, implement, and apply.
10. Evaluate, thin, and fade reinforcement contingencies, and move to group self-management.

While group contingencies effectively use the peer group to motivate appropriate behavior and eliminate inappropriate behavior for one or more target students, it is essential to ensure that the target students can successfully demonstrate the expected skills or behaviors and that the reinforcers and contingencies truly are motivating. This is because the target student’s failure to earn the reinforcement, especially within the dependent and interdependent group contingencies, can result in excessive levels of peer pressure, negative feedback, or scapegoating by the peer