planned and thoughtfully implemented, and it should emphasize the building of strong, positive, and sustainable relationships rather than quick, superficial, and one-sided gains. As the most public of a school’s committees, this one has the greatest potential to enhance a school’s positive reputation among its parents and community. Conversely, one significant misstep by this committee or one of its members could impair the school’s standing in the community for many years to come.

**Adapting the Committee Blueprint to Individual Schools.** Reinforcing a school’s commitment to shared leadership and representational governance, every staff member is expected to serve on at least one school-level committee. This increases staff members’ feelings that they can positively participate in and influence important school decisions, and it decreases the resentment that sometimes occurs when a small number of staff are doing more than their share of the committee leadership and work. At the same time, some staff will still serve on more than one committee. This often involves those who have special SPRINT functional assessment or intervention expertise or those who are on the SLT because they chair or co-chair one of the five other committees.

Critically, the school committee blueprint (see Figure 3.1 again) is flexible and must be adapted to a school’s strategic needs, organizational realities (e.g., state statutes, school size, local politics), and desired outcomes. For example, a school with a smaller staff may fuse two or more committees together, distributing the responsibilities of the committees it cannot formally establish to one or two others. Or the smaller school might pool specific grade-level teachers together (e.g., into Kindergarten/Grade 1, Grade 2/3, and Grade 4/5 teams) and have one teacher represent the interests of two grade levels. Other schools might assign more staff members to some committees and not others, reflecting the relative importance of some committees’ annual goals and objectives over others. Or they might assign stronger, more experienced, and fewer staff to certain committees on a short-term basis. Finally, schools with strategic needs in one or more specialized areas may reach beyond their existing committee structure by assigning skilled staff members to a short-term task force or study group that intensively addresses these specialized needs, suggests approaches and directions, and then disbands.