primary SPDG goals of the statewide implementation of Project ACHIEVE’s Positive Behavioral Support System (PBSS) approach; literacy and mathematics interventions for at-risk students, underachieving students, and students with disabilities; Response-to-Instruction and Intervention and Closing the Achievement Gap technical assistance to schools and districts in school improvement status; and special education and related services recruitment, training, and retention.

Dr. Knoff received his PhD degree from Syracuse University in 1980 and has worked as a practitioner, consultant, licensed private psychologist, and university professor since 1978. Dr. Knoff is widely respected for his research and writing on school reform and organizational change, consultation and intervention processes, social skills and behavior management training, Response-to-Intervention, and professional issues. He has authored or coauthored 18 books, published over 75 articles and book chapters, and delivered over 500 papers and workshops nationally—including the Stop & Think Social Skills Program (preschool through middle school editions) and the Stop & Think Parent Book: A Guide to Children’s Good Behavior. In addition, he was on the writing team that produced Early Warning, Timely Response: A Guide to Safe Schools, the document commissioned by President Clinton after the first wave of school shootings in the fall of 1998.

Dr. Knoff has a long history of working with schools, districts, and community and state agencies and organizations. For example, he has consulted with a number of state departments of education, the Department of Defense Dependents School District during Desert Storm, and the Southern Poverty Law Center. He has also served as an expert witness in federal court five times, in addition to working on many other state and local cases—largely for legal advocacy firms who represent special education and other students in need.

A recipient of the Lightner Witmer Award from the American Psychological Association’s School Psychology Division for early career contributions in 1990 and over $18 million in external grants during his career, Dr. Knoff is a Fellow of the American Psychological Association (School Psychology Division), a nationally certified school psychologist, and a licensed psychologist in Arkansas, and he has been trained in both crisis intervention and mediation processes. Frequently interviewed in all areas of the media, Dr. Knoff has been on the NBC Nightly News as well as