social skills and character education, cultural sensitivity and competence, bullying and sexual harassment, and sexual health and relationships.

As one result of this review, the committee validates or creates a scaffolded health, mental health, and wellness scope and sequence or curriculum map that includes the specific social, emotional, and behavioral topics and skills that will be taught across the grade levels in its school. A second result is that the committee validates the current social, emotional, and behavioral curriculum currently being used in the school, or it decides to research and choose a new approach.

**Action 3.4: Validation or Selection of a Social, Emotional, and Behavioral Curriculum or Instruction Process.** If the discipline/PBSS committee decides to pursue a new social, emotional, and behavioral skill instruction curriculum, it completes a systematic review and analysis of the evidence-based curricula available, and it chooses the curriculum that best meets its student-focused goals, outcomes, and needs. It then secures the permission and funding so that all of the necessary implementation materials are purchased and available prior to implementation year one.

**Action 3.5: Development of the Behavioral Accountability Matrix.** Guided by the grade-level representatives on the school discipline/PBSS committee, the Behavioral Matrix—a document that codifies the behavioral expectations at each grade level in the school—is completed (see Chapter 4). The Behavioral Matrix is the anchor to the PBSS’s accountability process. It identifies expected behaviors in the classrooms and common areas of the school connected with positive responses, incentives, and rewards and four intensity levels of inappropriate behavior (from annoying behavior through code of conduct offenses) connected with research-based responses that hold students accountable for their inappropriate behavior while reinforcing and motivating future appropriate behavior.

Once the behavioral matrices are completed, the school discipline/PBSS committee prepares the staff for the implementation rollout of the process across the school and ensures that support materials and other necessities (e.g., Behavioral Matrix posters for all classrooms) are ready for the rollout.

**Action 3.6: Social Skills Preparation by the Staff.** Once the social, emotional, and behavioral curriculum chosen by the school or district is received (see Action 3.4), the school discipline/PBSS committee