sounding board when challenging situations arise. The formal Check and Connect program has been used primarily at the middle and high school levels. A Check and Connect adaptation at the elementary school level is being used to similarly target students’ academic and behavioral progress while fostering mentor-mentee relationships and social-emotional connections within the school.

### Selecting a Mediation Program.
There are a number of informal and formal mediation programs available. When selecting a mediation program, it is recommended that a district or school form a task force to review the science of mediation, the goals and desired outcomes of the approach in general, and at least three evidence- or research-based programs (Johnson & Johnson, 1996; Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention, 1998). By integrating these three activities, the task force hopefully will choose the best program with the highest probability of meeting the school’s or district’s student needs and organizational goals. It is strongly recommended that districts with multiple elementary or secondary schools choose a single mediation program at one or both levels. This facilitates more consistent staff and student communication across schools, increases service delivery success in districts with high student mobility, and eases the transition process when students move from elementary to secondary school levels.

## STRATEGIC SKILLS INSTRUCTION AND INTERVENTION AT THE TIER 2 LEVEL
Based on functional assessments and analyses, when students are not demonstrating social, emotional, or behavioral skills due to skill deficits (Hypothesis #1), a slower speed of skill acquisition or mastery (Hypothesis #2), difficulties with generalizing or transferring skill training (Hypothesis #3), or due to conditions of emotionality (Hypothesis #4), more specialized instruction is needed. At the Tier 2 level, this often involves (a) a behavioral intervention specialist or mental health practitioner (e.g., counselor, school psychologist, school social worker) (b) working with a student (or a group of students with similar or related strategic needs) and (c) consulting with classroom teachers in specific, targeted skill and outcome areas. A different