Environment (see Table 8.1 and, once again, Figure 8.1)—the teacher or instructional factors, curricula factors, and student factors.

**Table 8.1 Important Functional Assessment Questions in the Instructional Environment**

*Student Characteristics and Conditions* involve characteristics and conditions that relate primarily to a student’s cognitive and academic ability, attitudes toward schooling, and readiness for academic and social, emotional, and behavioral learning. These characteristics directly relate to those behaviors that support learning, progress, and achievement. These characteristics and conditions also involve student behaviors that directly support academic and social learning and progress, such as self-competence skills, social skills, and the effective use of the teacher and teacher time.

When students are referred for academic difficulties, these relevant questions should be considered:

- Does the student have the prerequisite skills for the required or desired tasks?
- Does the student have the prior learning strategies to facilitate the advanced learning desired?
- Does the student have the self-competency, cognitive or metacognitive, motivational, social and interactive, and other learning-supporting skills needed to be successfully involved in the desired task?
- Does the student have and use the appropriate learning styles and approaches needed to successfully complete the desired tasks?

When students have behavioral difficulties, these relevant questions should be considered:

- Can the referral source (e.g., the teacher) adequately describe the referral concern (and other student liabilities) in behavioral terms or are there only vague descriptions of concerns (e.g., “the child has a problem with defiance”)?