The dealing with teasing skill script demonstrates the elements of a choice skill where students learn to evaluate different interpersonal situations so that they can strategically select the best choice:

1. Take deep breaths and count to five.
2. Think about your good choices. You can
   a. ignore the teasing,
   b. ask the person to stop in a nice way,
   c. walk away or back away from the teaser, or
   d. find an adult for help.
3. Choose and act out your best choice.

Once students have thought about the good social skill choices or steps needed for a particular situation, they then are prepared to demonstrate them behaviorally.

Thus, in the Do It! step, students behaviorally carry out their plan, implement the social skill chosen, and evaluate whether or not it has worked. With younger elementary school-aged students, teachers may need to repeat the skill steps as their students follow them, and they might even need to physically guide students through some skills. Older students, with prompting, will repeat the Stop & Think steps silently to themselves and perform the prosocial behaviors more independently and automatically over time.

If the Do It! step works, students then are ready to go on to the last step. However, if a step skill doesn’t work, students simply go back over the scripts in Step 3 and implement them more carefully. If a choice skill doesn’t work, students are prompted to move to another good choice option or identify another social skill that will work. For example, if the ignoring choice does not stop a peer’s teasing, then a student might decide to directly ask the peer to stop the teasing, explaining how the teasing is making him or her feel. Once successful, it is on to the last step.

The Good Job! step uses the cognitive-behavioral skill of self-reinforcement such that students reinforce themselves for successfully demonstrating a social skill that helped them respond appropriately to a social, emotional, or behavioral situation. This step is important because students need to learn to self-evaluate and self-reinforce when they make