learning, mastery, and proficiency. As the primary focus of this book, the six components of a scientifically based PBSS are described.

# THE UNDERLYING SCIENCE AND SIX COMPONENTS OF THE EVIDENCE-BASED PBSS BLUEPRINT

Many states, districts, and schools have been implementing schoolwide PBSS using a number of available models for well over 15 years (e.g., Positive Behavioral Intervention Systems, Project ACHIEVE, Safe and Civil Schools, Fred Jones, William Glasser). In most cases, these models have adopted three-tiered RTI² approaches that focus on prevention, strategic intervention, and intensive need/crisis management services. Project ACHIEVE’s PBSS (Knoff, 2009a) provides an evidence-based blueprint comprised of six functional components that organizes the behavioral side of the effective school and schooling process (see, again, Figure 1.1). Similar to the PASS, the PBSS is a continuum that begins with positive and effective classroom management and continues with social, emotional, and/or behavioral instructional or intervention services, supports, strategies, and programs that occur at different levels of intensity depending on student need. Before describing the six PBSS components, it is critical to emphasize that they exist within the context of ten scientific principles of behavior that directly relate to the ultimate goal of a PBSS—students’ social, emotional, and behavioral competency and self-management. The ten scientific principles (Knoff, 2009b) are as follows:

1. We need to teach the social, emotional, and behavioral skills and the classroom and building routines that we expect students to demonstrate.

To accomplish this, students need to learn how to maintain physiological and cognitive self-control—that is, control over their physical/biochemical levels of emotionality and their thoughts, beliefs, attitudes, expectations, and attributions. Concurrently, students need to learn the steps or “scripts” required to demonstrate specific skills and the