office (Level 4) or another designated setting (e.g., in an in-school suspension or responsibility room). At a Level 1 time-out (in the student’s homeroom classroom or the setting where the offense occurred), the student stays in the time-out chair for two to three minutes, regardless of age, as long as he or she is behaving appropriately. At a Level 2 time-out (still in the student’s homeroom classroom or the setting where the offense occurred), the student receives an additional consequence, because he or she has either acted out while in the Level 1 time-out or demonstrated a more serious original offense than a Level 1 offense.

If students commit an even more serious offense or continue to act out in the Level 2 time-out, they proceed either to a Level 3 or Level 4 time-out. At these levels, additional consequences are applied (e.g., loss of time at recess commensurate with the total time in time-out, the need to write a behavioral contract, a parent call or conference), and when they are ready to return to their classroom, they must backward chain down the time-out levels—for example, from Level 4 to Level 3 to Level 2/1 and back to their homeroom seat. During this backward chaining process, they need to demonstrate two to three minutes of appropriate time-out behavior in each level’s timeout chair.

Significantly, this time-out process represents an educational intervention. Its goal is to reinforce and motivate future appropriate behavior—not to punish already-exhibited inappropriate behavior. For students needing Tier 2 intervention, it is the consistent and educational use of time-out and the ongoing collection of progress monitoring data that demonstrate a student’s (hopefully) positive response to the intervention through a decrease of inappropriate and increase of appropriate behavior over time. Critically, when a time-out process is used unscientifically, idiosyncratically, or inconsistently by individual teachers (or administrators) across a school, these practices diminish the potential to change student behavior, and they may reinforce or strengthen some students’ inappropriate behavior over time.

In order to implement this intervention effectively, the teacher, behavioral consultant or specialist, or mental health practitioner should follow a specific sequence of steps:

1. Identify the specific behavior or offense that needs to be decreased or eliminated while identifying the appropriate behavior that helps the