- Does the curriculum task analyze specific skills, when appropriate, such that sequential and mastery-oriented learning results for all students?
- Does the curriculum provide a range of levels to accommodate the different cognitive and language levels that might exist within an integrated classroom?
- Does the curriculum introduce new skills such that students have a high probability of success, and provide sufficient positive practice opportunities for students to attain mastery?
- Does the curriculum have built-in opportunities for students to transfer new training to other academic situations, applications, and contexts?
- Does the curriculum have horizontal skill books and other materials available for students who need extra instruction or practice to attain mastery?
- Does the curriculum follow research-based methods of instruction relative to student mastery and other relevant outcomes?

Critically, these questions, and the data-based ways to answer them, are integrated into the schoolwide problem-solving training needed and noted earlier in this chapter, and they are used consciously and explicitly during the early implementation of the RTI²/SPRINT process. Indeed, when everyone is trained and uses these question-oriented protocols, it results in earlier and higher-level data collection and problem analysis, especially by classroom teachers at the beginning of the process, and it increases the potential that these teachers will solve some of their own student problems more independently over time. Even if the latter result does not occur, the quality and integrity of the data that teachers bring to and present to the grade- or building-level SPRINT teams, respectively, increase the effectiveness and efficiency of the SPRINT meetings themselves because teachers already have the answers to some questions or have the data that other team members can use to answer the more complex case-related questions.