to the new school year. The names of these students do not appear on the Get-Go Review and Analysis Form.

By definition, a Get-Go student needs immediate instructional or intervention services, supports, strategies, or programs in place on the first day of the new school year. Students on IEPs, 504 Plans, and any other state- or district-mandated academic or behavioral intervention plan are automatically Get-Go students as their services or supports, by law or regulation, must be ready for implementation on the first day of the new school year.

An At-Risk student has received interventions during the past school year that were so successful that they are not needed to start the new school year, and yet, the staff at the meeting feel that the student may still be at risk for further difficulties. Given this and the intervention time and effort already invested, students are designated At Risk so that the instructional staff who teach these students during the next year can be systematically briefed as to each student’s academic and behavioral history, and the reasons for and results of previous interventions. This briefing occurs both verbally, at the end of the current or prior to the beginning of the new school year, and through the written Student Briefing Report.

Check-In students are identified because staff want someone to check in with them at some point during their transition into the new school year. Some of these students have received and completed one or more successful interventions during the current year, and (unlike the At-Risk students) the staff feel that there is no need to extensively brief their next year’s teachers. Other students simply have a specific issue that the staff need or want to track into the next year. For all of these students, their check-in status puts an articulation safety net in place so that one or more designated individuals will look in on them at some point during the first quarter of the school year.

When identifying Check-In students, the SPRINT and grade-level team specifies and documents the areas of concern, when the check-in should occur (e.g., just prior to the beginning of the school year, or after Week 1, 2, 4, or 9), and who should complete and record the check-in and with whom. For some students, the check-in may involve calling the parents before the first day of school to remind them that the school year starts in two days, checking to see if they are in school on Day 1, and then running attendance reports after Weeks 1, 3, and 5. For others, it involves a scan of their report