4. Validate that the student has mastered the replacement or appropriate behavior in multiple settings or under multiple conditions (if mastery has not occurred, instruction is needed).
5. Identify the differential reinforcement approach and criterion (based on frequency, duration, intensity) to be used:
   a. DRO: How much other behavior, in the absence of the inappropriate behavior, will be reinforced?
   b. DRL: What low rate of behavior over what time period will be reinforced?
   c. DRI/DRA: How much incompatible or alternative behavior, in the absence of the inappropriate behavior, will be reinforced?
6. Discuss and identify with the student a range of possible meaningful and powerful tangible (actual or symbolic or exchangeable) and intangible, extrinsic and intrinsic reinforcers.
7. Develop a monitoring and evaluation protocol.
8. Teach and discuss with the student
   a. the behavioral expectations,
   b. the incentives and consequences and their delivery, and
   c. the charting or evaluation system.
9. Role-play to mastery and provide application practice sessions in the setting where the behavior generally occurs.
10. Transfer the training, implement, and apply.
11. Evaluate, thin, and move to self-management.

DRO is generally successful when there are a high number of appropriate other behaviors to reinforce (e.g., reinforcing on-task and work completion behavior to decrease off-task peer socialization). DRL can be used to address inappropriate behaviors whose frequency needs to be decreased but not necessarily eliminated (e.g., making jokes or adding unnecessary stories when answering content questions). In addition, DRL requires adults and students in the intervention setting to be able to tolerate a certain amount of continuing inappropriate behavior (even though it is systematically decreasing), thereby sustaining this intervention over the time period needed for success. Finally, relative to DRI/DRA, the best incompatible or alternative behaviors are ones that the student already does