* **Materials or Content Are Not Engaging, Relevant, or Written With the Learner in Mind.** When social, emotional, or behavioral curricula are not student-centered, student engagement and motivation diminishes, and students do not learn or master the information, skills, or applications desired.  
* **Materials Are Not Instructionally Sequenced, Organized, or Consistent.** At times, social, emotional, or behavioral curricula just are not designed well. As such, the resulting instruction is not effective or efficient, lessons do not make sense, and student learning is negatively affected. For example, when more advanced social skills are taught before their prerequisite skills, they are not easily learned and mastered.  
* **Materials Are Difficult to Modify or Adapt for Struggling Students.** Recognizing that not all students learn in the same way or at the same pace, social, emotional, or behavioral curricula need to suggest ways—supported by research, pedagogical approaches, and adaptable materials—to modify or adapt their instruction so that struggling learners also can succeed. Moreover, when curricula are not easily modified or adapted for different learners, they create a situation where students must fit into the curricula, rather than having curricula that can fit the students.  

The student characteristics and factors domain involves characteristics and conditions that relate primarily to students’ biological, physiological, cognitive, behavioral, motivational, and dispositional readiness for academic and social, emotional, and behavioral learning and mastery. These characteristics directly relate to their social competency and self-management knowledge, skills, and behaviors—including their cognitive attitudes, beliefs, and attributions toward themselves and others; their interpersonal, social problem-solving, conflict prevention and resolution, and emotional coping skills; and their self-monitoring, self-evaluation, self-correction, and self-reinforcement skills.  

As discussed earlier in this chapter, one of the first critical student-focused actions in the problem-solving process is to discount the medical. That is, in collaboration with medical personnel, the possible presence of relevant physical or physiological, chemical or biochemical, hormonal or genetic, neurological or cognitive, or other circumstances or events that are