will need to teach students more specialized skills in such areas as attention and attention control, socialization, or anger-, emotion-, or self-control (see Kazdin, 2001; Kerr & Nelson, 2010; Knoff, 2010c; Sprick & Garrison, 2008). While this instruction typically occurs on an individual or small group level in the specialist’s office, it also needs to be systematically transferred to the general education classroom to ensure skill generalization and self-management. To facilitate the transfer, teachers need to know the essential elements of these more specialized approaches so that they can monitor, prompt, reinforce, or correct students’ use of these skills in real-life situations. Relative to accountability and consistency, students also need to know—perhaps as the result of a transfer of training meeting with the student, teacher, and behavioral specialist—that their teachers know about and how to use these more specialized approaches.

In summary, while teaching or instruction is the primary approach needed to address the four skill-related reasons for students’ difficulties, the results of the problem analysis help to determine who, when, where, how often, and how long the instruction will occur (see again Chapter 8, Table 8.2). While a Tier 2 level of instructional intensity was described above, schools that do not have behavioral or mental health specialists, or specialists with the expertise in these strategic instructional approaches, may need to involve out-of-school consultants, experts, or service providers. Whether the need for outside experts changes the designation of these services to Tier 3 services is not the compelling issue. The compelling issue is that the targeted students receive the needed instructional services so that, with the involvement of the general education staff, they can be successful in the classroom, school, and elsewhere.

**Two Examples of a Skills-Based Intervention.** Critically, some students with skills-based difficulties need specific, targeted cognitive or behavioral interventions rather than the instructional approaches reviewed above. For example, these students may need stimulus control or prompting and cueing interventions where they are taught to respond to specific verbal, nonverbal, setting, or situational prompts, cues, conditions, or other stimuli that are connected (conditioned) to appropriate cognitive-behavioral social interactions, emotional reactions, or behavioral responses (see Kazdin, 2001; Kerr & Nelson, 2010). At times, these interventions also focus on