management, as well as decreases in student disruptions and disciplinary incidents.

# SUMMARY

Accountability is defined as “being willing to accept responsibility for one’s actions.” While it is important for students (and others) to accept responsibility when they have acted inappropriately (socially, emotionally, or behaviorally), from a self-management perspective, it is more important that they plan and prepare to act responsibly before specific interactions. To facilitate this, students need to have a framework that identifies expected positive and prosocial behaviors in different school settings, and different levels of inappropriate behavior so that they understand that some inappropriate behaviors are more serious than others.

The Behavioral Matrix is recommended as the framework of behavioral standards for students and teachers at specific grade levels and across the common areas of a school. When developed and implemented effectively, the Behavioral Matrix increases the consistency across teachers and other staff relative to student expectations, behavior, feedback, and follow-up. This, then, eliminates the dilemmas that occur when (a) there are different sets of behavioral standards across teachers, (b) individual teachers have different sets of standards across students and even when interacting with individual students, and (c) students are expected to adapt to these inequities and inconsistencies.

For teachers who believe that the Behavioral Matrix usurps their autonomy and personal ownership for classroom management, it does not. In fact, the Behavioral Matrix (for behavior) does not differ from the curricular standards or benchmarks (for academics) that all teachers at a specific grade level are expected to cover. For example, all fourth grade teachers are expected to help their students master the same set of academic skills, specified by the state and district, in literacy, math, science, and so on. How they teach these academic standards may vary from teacher to teacher, but they must teach the same skills and proficiencies represented by these standards. Ultimately, students are evaluated on how well they learn and master the material and whether they can demonstrate their proficiency. With the Behavioral Matrix, the academic accountability that has existed for