Figure 1.2 The Positive Academic Supports and Services (PASS) Model: A Service Delivery Continuum

Effective Instruction with Differentiation and Continuous Monitoring

Assistive Supports
- Remediation
- Accommodation
- Modification
- Strategic Intervention
- Compensation

Source: Project ACHIEVE Press. Dr. Howie Knoff (author).

The PASS blueprint involves a continuum of academically focused instructional and intervention supports and services that are strategically implemented, across a multi-tiered system, at different levels of intensity. The foundation of the PASS blueprint is effective and differentiated classroom instruction where teachers use and continuously evaluate (or progress monitor) evidence-based curricular materials and approaches that are matched to students’ learning styles and needs. As noted above, after a reasonable period of instruction, practice, and support, if students still have not mastered academic materials that are presented in effective ways, the data-based, functional assessment, problem-solving process is used. Results then are linked to different instructional or intervention approaches that are organized along the PASS continuum:

- *Assistive supports* involve specialized equipment, technologies, medical or physical devices, and other resources that help students, especially those with significant disabilities, to learn and function—physically, behaviorally, academically, and in all areas of communication. Assistive supports can be used anywhere along the PASS continuum.