emotional, or behavioral program, districts should form a selection committee made up of district and school representatives who review a number of possible programs and choose the best one. While a different program or curriculum may be chosen at the elementary versus secondary level, the district’s selection and use of a single program (a) helps to maintain instructional consistency and integrity especially when there are high mobility rates of students and staff across different schools within the same district; (b) makes purchasing materials easier and more cost-effective; and (c) facilitates consistent districtwide training, support, implementation, and evaluation.

While the recommendation for the district-level selection of a social, emotional, or behavioral skills program may seem unprecedented or unusual, it is consistent with the way most districts choose their literacy, mathematics, and other academic curricula. Indeed, when choosing a new academic curriculum, especially at the elementary level, most districts form a selection committee that is charged with identifying the needs, goals, and desired outcomes of all of its students while assessing the strengths and weaknesses of the current curriculum. The committee then reviews recent research that is relevant to the targeted academic area, agrees on the criteria that will guide the selection process, and identifies an initial pool of programs or curricula that meet most of the criteria. After narrowing the pool, the committee examines review copies of the top three to five curricula, interviews teachers from other districts who have used the curricula, and listens to formal presentations from the authors or publishers of the highest rated curricula. Finally, the committee makes a final recommendation of one or more (perhaps, in rank-ordered fashion) curricula to the superintendent or school board, and a final decision is made. This same process is recommended when selecting a social, emotional, or behavioral program or curriculum, especially given the importance of these skills to positive school and classroom climates, academic engagement, prosocial success, and academic achievement (see the introduction sections of this chapter).

# Selecting a Social, Emotional, and Behavioral Skills Program at the Secondary Level

At the secondary level, the selection of a social, emotional, and behavioral skills program follows a somewhat different track. First, it is important to recognize that state legislatures or departments