coordinates a book study whereby the materials are progressively read by everyone in the school and each reading assignment is discussed in small groups. This is an important step that precedes, if it is to occur, the formal in-service training where all staff are trained in how to implement the curriculum or program.

**Action 3.7: Drafting of the Social Skills Calendar With Classroom and Building Routines.** Given the results of Actions 3.4, 3.5, and 3.6, the school discipline/PBSS committee drafts a beginning-of-the-year social skills and student accountability implementation calendar in April or May. This calendar includes the rollout of the Behavioral Matrix accountability system on the first day of the new school year, teaching and reinforcing expectations and routines in the common areas of the school and in the classrooms, and teaching the social, emotional, and behavioral skills curriculum across the school year.

**Action 3.8: Completion of the Get-Go and Student Briefing Reports Process.** If ready, the school should complete the Get-Go process (see Chapter 10) in April. This end-of-year process involves a review of the academic and behavioral progress of all students and identification of students who need immediate interventions at the beginning of the new school year (“Get-Go” students) and those whose next-year’s teachers need to be briefed as to the instructional and intervention approaches that helped them be successful this year (“At-Risk” students). Related to this activity is the completion of Student Briefing Reports for the students by their current teachers. These reports are given to the new teachers receiving these students prior to the beginning of the new school year.

**Action 3.9: Special Situations Analysis.** If possible, the school discipline/PBSS committee should complete a special situation analysis (see Chapters 6, 7, and 10) in April of student behavior in the common areas of the school, and relative to teasing, taunting, bullying, harassment, hazing, and physical aggression. Based on the results of this analysis, the committee could complete a focused special situation analysis on one of the areas identified to develop an intervention plan to address the selected area at the beginning of the next school year.