research of Goldstein (1988) and Cartledge and Milburn (1995), the Stop & Think Social Skills Program also is the anchor of Project ACHIEVE’s PBSS. Using the Stop & Think program as an exemplar, specific characteristics and components are described below to provide examples of how the scientific criteria above can be applied in a functional way at the classroom and school level.

The Stop & Think Social Skills Program has manuals and materials for both school and home and parent instruction and implementation (Knoff, 2001, 2005b). The program focuses on teaching students interpersonal, social problem-solving, conflict prevention and resolution, emotional coping, academic supporting, and classroom and building routine skills by using classroom or home lessons that involve teaching, modeling, role-play, performance feedback, and transfer of training activities. The Stop & Think school program has four levels: preschool to early elementary (pre-school to Grade 1), early to middle elementary school (Grades 2 to 3), middle to late elementary school (Grades 4 to 5), and middle school (Grades 6 to 8). Initially, students are taught the universal Stop & Think language and then the steps for each specific social skill in the third “What are your Choices or Steps?” step. Each manual outlines 10 core and 10 advanced social skills as well as up to 20 additional classroom or building routines. Within a classroom, each social skill is taught in a two-week cycle that includes teaching each social skill’s step-by-step scripts and accompanying prosocial behaviors, engaging students in systematic application activities so that they can practice their skills in closer-to-real-life situations, and taking advantage of teachable moments to facilitate skill infusion.

The Stop & Think Social Skills Program was identified with Project ACHIEVE as an evidence-based program by the U.S. Department of Health & Human Services’ Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, SAMHSA, 2010). Below are Stop & Think characteristics or components that exemplify the seven scientific criteria.

**Criterion 1.** The social, emotional, or behavioral skills program teaches sensible and pragmatic interpersonal, social problem-solving, conflict prevention and resolution, and emotional coping skills that are needed by today’s students and that can be applied on a daily basis by preschool through high school students. Social skills are behaviors that students learn