**Action 2.12: Review and Alignment of School Vision and Mission Statements With PBSS Directions.** Based on all of the results and actions above, the SLT looks at its vision statement (if applicable) and mission statement to ensure that they are consistent with the PBSS initiative, making any changes desired or needed.

## Focus Area 3. Preparation for PBSS Implementation

**Action 3.1: Review and Redesign of Existing PBSS Multi-tiered System of Implementation.** The discipline/PBSS committee reviews the programs, strategies, and approaches currently in place in the school that represent the current multi-tiered system of prevention, strategic instruction or intervention, and intensive needs and crisis management. This process identifies the strengths, weaknesses, barriers, gaps, and needs that should be addressed immediately, in the short term or in the long term. This process may result in a redesign of the multi-tiered system (see Chapter 1) to facilitate the accomplishment of specific PBSS goals and outcomes.

**Action 3.2: Review of the PBSS Data Collection and Management System.** The discipline/PBSS committee reviews the components of the existing PBSS data collection, tracking, analysis, and management resources and tools (e.g., software, databases, and other computer- or web-based programs), and their efficacy relative to helping the school to enter, organize, summarize, display, track, and evaluate PBSS data and information (see Chapter 10). Based on the results, the committee works with the administration, the school district’s technology personnel, committee members, and others to design and set up the needed databases and other software or data management systems to close any apparent gaps.

**Action 3.3: Review of the Social, Emotional, Behavioral Instruction System/Process.** As part of Action 3.1 above, the discipline/PBSS committee reviews the programs, strategies, and approaches currently in place in the school that focus on teaching students social, emotional, and behavioral skills and their outcomes (see Chapter 5). These are cross-referenced to any state or district requirements in the areas of health, behavioral or mental health, and wellness. For example, at the secondary level, such requirements often involve topics related to drugs and alcohol,