conditions present when students pass through the hallways in safe and appropriate ways?
- When it exists, why does the inappropriate behavior occur, and why do the offending students behave appropriately when that happens? When they behave appropriately in the halls, are there specific reasons why or conditions that are present? Do the offending students choose to behave appropriately versus inappropriately at different times or due to different conditions? Does the presence of or the response from specific peers or staff members increase the offending students’ appropriate behavior, and does the presence of or response from other peers increase these students’ inappropriate behavior?
- How long has the inappropriate behavior been occurring? Is this a historical pattern of concern, or has the inappropriate behavior just recently begun?
- What are the strengths, skills, and assets of the different groups of students noted above, what are the attitudes of the latter three groups toward the students demonstrating the inappropriate behavior, and what is their commitment to seeing the behavior change?

**Teacher and Staff Characteristics, Issues, and Factors.** The problem analysis process here specifically analyzes the who, what, where, when, why, and how of the administrators, staff, and other adults who are present in the common school area of concern, and other teachers or staff who are not in these settings but are, nonetheless, influencing students’ common school area behavior—positively or negatively. Mirroring the functional assessments within the student domain, the problem-solving process here investigates (a) who the administrators, staff, and other adults are in the school—demographically, experientially, and situationally; (b) what they are contributing—positively, negatively, or not at all—to the problem situation relative to their interactions and responses, their lack of responses, or their physical absence from the setting; and (c) how their strengths and weaknesses, skills and abilities, beliefs or expectations, and motivation or resistance relate to the problem situation, or its absence, prevention, or resolution.

Revisiting the running, pushing, and shoving scenario in the middle school hallways, certain staff questions need to be answered: