of training activities and simulations to help students learn how to demonstrate their skills under conditions of emotionality.

For students who do not demonstrate appropriate social skill behavior after effective instruction, the data-based, functional assessment, problem-solving process is needed to determine why that is occurring. Some of these students, for example, might need more intensive or smaller group social skills instruction. Others might need more assistance in how to transfer their social skills training to actual situations. Still others might need more strategic or intensive emotional or self-control training to teach them how to demonstrate their social skills under these conditions. This information is discussed further in Chapter 5.

**Accountability.** Even when students have mastered their social skills, they still need to be motivated to use them. Indeed, when the peer group (that says, “be cool”) competes against teachers and other educators (who say, “focus on school”), the importance of schoolwide accountability approaches is apparent. School accountability processes consist of meaningful incentives and consequences that motivate students to use their prosocial skills. These processes are important because (a) students with good social skills still need to be motivated to use their skills, (b) some (performance deficit) students lack this motivation, and (c) some students respond in situation-specific ways—making good choices when alone with adults but inappropriate choices when pressured by peers.

One way to establish a schoolwide behavioral accountability system is to develop a “Behavioral Matrix” (Knoff, 2007d). Created predominantly by staff and students, this matrix explicitly identifies, for all grade levels, behavioral expectations in the classroom and in other common areas of the school (connected with positive responses, incentives, and rewards) and different intensities or levels of inappropriate student behavior (connected with corrective responses, consequences, and interventions as needed). Relative to the latter, Intensity I behaviors involve annoying behaviors that teachers handle with corrective prompts; Intensity II behaviors involve more challenging, disruptive behaviors that teachers handle with prompts plus classroom-based consequences; Intensity III behaviors are more serious persistent or antisocial behaviors that usually involve office discipline referrals followed by strategic intervention; and Intensity IV behaviors are the most serious code of conduct problems that generally