Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention (OJJDP; in 2003); the Collaborative for Academic, Social, Emotional Learning (CASEL; in 2002); and other regional and state groups. Project ACHIEVE is now listed on SAMHSA’s National Registry of Evidence-Based Programs and Practices (U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, SAMHSA, 2010), and its implementation blueprints, procedures, and strategies are the foundation of most of the effective practices embedded throughout this book.

Working with some of the lowest to highest performing schools and in some of the poorest to most affluent communities nationwide, Project ACHIEVE’s ultimate goal is to design and implement effective school and schooling processes that maximize the academic and social, emotional, and behavioral progress and achievement of all students. Project ACHIEVE also assists schools to implement effective and efficient problem solving and strategic intervention processes for students with academic and behavioral difficulties, while improving the staff’s professional development and effective instructional interactions and increasing the quality and quantity of parent and community involvement and engagement. All of this is done through a strategic planning, capacity building, professional development, and technical assistance process that helps students, staff, schools, and systems to continuously improve and become independent over time. Adapting its evidence-based blueprints to diverse settings, Project ACHIEVE practices have been used in public schools, alternative schools, special education centers, psychiatric and juvenile justice facilities, Head Start and other preschool programs, and specialized charter schools.

Seven interdependent components form the foundation of Project ACHIEVE’s effective school and school improvement process. These components are described below (see also Figure 1.1).

1. The strategic planning and organizational analysis and development component initially focuses on assessing the organizational climate, administrative style, staff decision making, and other interprofessional and interpersonal processes in a school. Activities then move into identifying and reinforcing or establishing and implementing the organizational policies, professional development and instructional practices, and year-round teaming and intervention approaches that support the academic and social, emotional, and behavioral success of all students. The ultimate