# EVALUATING PBSS OUTCOMES: A SAMPLE OF NEWER TOOLS AND APPROACHES

Addressing some of the PBSS outcomes cited above, a number of newer evaluation tools and approaches are presented below. They include tools that provide information on (a) staff interactions and collaborations across the school, (b) staff perceptions and beliefs relative to student management and school safety, (c) office discipline referrals, (d) discipline-related classroom observations of students and staff, and (e) staff expertise relative to implementing different behavioral interventions. This is not an exhaustive list as other PBSS evaluation tools and resources are available from other sources and should be considered and reviewed.

## Evaluating Perceptions of Staff Interactions and School Cohesion.

In order to accomplish any of the seven PBSS goals above, the staff interactions across a school (and district) need to be collaborative, trusting, mission-driven, and based on a shared commitment to the students, the school, the community, and each other. *The Scale of Staff Interactions and School Cohesion* (Knoff, 2007g; SSISC) is a 25-item survey that measures these areas by asking the staff in a school to “rate these items based on the last two months of interactions across the staff in your school (or the last two months of the last school year, if it is now the beginning of a new school year).” Each item is rated along a five-point scale from 1—Excellent to 5—Poor (see Table 10.1), and the data can be pooled and analyzed (a) for the entire staff, (b) by different grade or instructional levels of staff, (c) by instructional versus administrative versus support staff, or (d) in some other functional way.

It is critical to note that this survey measures staff members’ perceptions and the interactions that they have observed (or heard about) over the previous two months. These perceptions may not be accurate, and individual staff members’ observations may not be representative of those across the entire staff and school. At the same time, for many staff members, perception is reality, and their behavior and interactions with colleagues are often driven by their beliefs, attitudes, attributions, and relationships. When staff members complete and receive the results from this tool, they have one assessment of their collective perceptions of the