## Step 2: Completing a Gap Analysis

As noted, if justified by the severity, intensity, or complexity of a student’s problems, the classroom teacher presents the case to the building-level SPRINT team. After systematically outlining the most relevant information collected during Step 1 of this process, the teacher responds to questions from the members of this multidisciplinary team, and other known and unknown information is discussed. If the team decides that the primary concerns are clear enough, and that there is enough valid information to proceed, it chooses the best assessment or intervention consultant to continue the problem-solving process with the teacher in the settings where the concerns exist. If there are too many unanswered questions, the discussion in the team meeting eventually is suspended, different individuals are asked to obtain the answers to these questions, and the discussion is continued at a future, reconvened meeting once the needed information is available.

The decision on the best consultant to work with the classroom teacher on a case is the primary goal of the initial building-level SPRINT meeting. Given the typical complexity of most cases at this level, it is rare that the reasons underlying a student’s difficulties are so clear that, sight unseen, the instructional or intervention services, supports, strategies, or programs can be accurately determined at the meeting itself and readied for implementation. Thus, virtually all Step 2 gap analyses—especially for the most challenging social, emotional, or behavioral cases brought to the building-level SPRINT team—are completed collaboratively in the field by the identified SPRINT team consultant, the classroom teacher, and others (including the student him- or herself) who are relevant to the identified concerns. At this stage, these analyses involve (a) identifying the gap between the student’s current versus expected (or desired) level of functioning, (b) identifying the replacement behaviors that become the goals of the intervention plan and process, and (c) quantifying the gap to the greatest degree possible. Once again, a problem-solving, consultation, intervention approach is used throughout the RTI² service delivery process.

A student’s skill gap is determined by contrasting the social, emotional, and behavioral self-management skills that he or she has mastered (regardless of age level) with the skills that he or she should have mastered, given developmental and maturational expectations. One way to organize