interpersonal problem-solving skills. The curriculum consists of an instructional manual; six volumes of lessons, pictures, and photographs; and additional materials. A research book is also available. PATHS is designed for use with elementary school-aged children. The purpose of the PATHS Curriculum is to enhance the social competence and social understanding of children as well as to facilitate educational processes in the classroom.

**Life Skills Training** (published by Princeton Health Press; website: [www.lifeskillstraining.com](http://www.lifeskillstraining.com)). Promoted as a program to help elementary, middle, and high school students develop skills to reduce tobacco, drug and alcohol abuse, and violence, Life Skills Training focuses on three primary learning objectives: drug resistance skills, personal self-management skills, and general social skills. The program begins at Grade 3 and extends into high school. The entire elementary section (Grades 3 to 4, 4 to 5, 5 to 6) features 24 sessions that are 30 to 35 minutes in length. For the middle school, there are 30 sessions divided between Grades 6 to 9, and the high school section consists of ten sessions that are 40 to 45 minutes in length for Grades 9 and 10.

Life Skills Training is classroom based and features lecture, discussion, coaching, and practice as instructional methods. The curriculum sets include a teacher’s manual and 30 student guides. An elementary-level sample lesson is available online, providing a large number of worksheets. It features a decision-making model called the “Stop-Think-Go” method. There is a parent guide and DVD (available in Spanish) and a workshop kit available for parent trainers. It addresses adolescent drug use and the development of student personal self-management and social skills.

**Tools for Teaching Social Skills in Schools** (published by Boys Town Press; website: [www.boystownpress.org](http://www.boystownpress.org)). This workbook is a series of instructional lesson plans for teaching 28 social skills including following instructions, staying on task, working with others, accepting criticism, listening, ignoring distractions, making a good choice, sharing, and showing respect. Lesson plans have activities that use discussion, activities, journaling, role-play, and reading. The workbook also includes reproducible skill pages, techniques to blend social skills into academic lessons, ideas for bulletin board displays and student motivators, and strategies for increasing parent support. The book also has chapters explaining the role of social