cards at the end of the first marking period to check their grades and progress. For still others, it involves asking a teacher to comment on their performance in the classroom at the end of the second week of school.

Ultimately, the goal of the Get-Go process is to make sure that specific students’ instructional or intervention history, information, status, and needs are effectively and efficiently communicated to new teachers and support staff so that they will successfully transition into the new school year. Prior to each Get-Go meeting, the grade-level and building-level SPRINT teams need to review all of the students whose challenges were formally analyzed through the data-based functional assessment problem solving or who received early intervening services. Similarly, as noted above, any student on an IEP, 504, or academic or behavioral intervention plan should be designated as a Get-Go student prior to the meeting. Finally, it must be recognized that some students will be identified during the Get-Go process not because of academic or social, emotional, or behavioral concerns but because of (a) attendance issues (including being persistently late), (b) medical conditions that teachers and others need to know about, or (c) current or historical family issues that impact their performance at school. Depending on the severity of these conditions or the need for teacher training or briefing, these students could be identified as Get-Go, At-Risk, or Check-In students, respectively.

## Student Briefing Reports.

These reports are summaries of the most essential information about specific students as learned by their classroom teachers and teaching teams during a specific school year. Written primarily by students’ general education teachers, these Briefing Reports could be included as part of a computerized student record database and organized as a cumulative, year-to-year running record to document specific students’ academic and behavioral progress over time. As noted above, Student Briefing Reports must be written by every teacher and staff person who has worked with a student designated as a Get-Go or At-Risk student for the next school year. For students with IEPs, or 504 or academic or behavioral intervention plans, these plans may substitute for the Briefing Report as long as all of the essential student information is present. Beyond this, any teacher can write a Briefing Report on any student to share any information that would help another colleague to understand, teach, motivate, or assist a student at the beginning of the next school year.