implementation issues; meeting with the administration to discuss implementation issues; and meeting with parent and community representatives to discuss building and extended community implementation and wrap-around.

**Action 1.6: Initial SPRINT Team Training.** Concurrent with the PBSS activities above, the building-level SPRINT team participates in an in-service on the data-based problem-solving process and begins to practice these skills using a guided case study approach.

**Action 1.7: End-of-Semester Formative Evaluations.** At the end of the semester, the school discipline/PBSS committee, in collaboration with the administration and SLT, conducts formative evaluations on the different facets of the PBSS so that strategic plans and implementation activities and processes can be adapted as needed. This review should especially focus on the social skills training and the Behavioral Matrix process. If needed, modifications to the social skills calendar and to specific behaviors on the Behavioral Matrices can be made at this time.

*Implementation Year 1, Semester 2*

From January through the remainder of the first year, the school discipline/PBSS committee continues to meet at least monthly to plan, implement, and evaluate PBSS activities and data. Within the grade-level teams, teachers continue to implement, evaluate, and monitor the social skills, accountability, and consistency processes in their classrooms. The school discipline/PBSS committee, meanwhile, continues to support and periodically review the classroom, grade-level, and buildingwide accountability system; collect formative evaluation data; determine the need for additional social skills, time-out, or behavioral intervention training for the staff; track the use of the social skill process by secretaries, paraprofessionals, cafeteria workers, and custodians; develop drafts of the building’s crisis response plans and processes (see Chapter 6); and extend the initiative’s training and implementation into home and community settings.