- What occurs before, during, and after the behavior of concern?
- What are the student’s strengths across domains relevant to the referral problems, across domains that might be used in an intervention program for the referral problem, and across other domains that do not necessarily relate to the referral problem?
- Where does the problem occur least often? Is the problem occurring more or less often than (a) last week, (b) last month, (c) the beginning of the year, or (d) at the onset of the problem? When did the problem behavior first occur? What is the teacher’s preferred approach in solving the problem?
- What is the function of the behavior for the student, for other students, and for the teacher? What is the teacher’s style, skill, and investment in dealing with the problem?
- Is the problem a skill, performance, or self-management deficit for the student? Is the problem a skill, performance, or self-management deficit for the teacher?
- How often can the behavior occur and still be tolerable for the teacher? How do (or should) other students behave, when the problem behavior is occurring, such that their behavior or reaction is appropriate? If the challenging student were unable to engage in the problem behavior, what other problem behaviors might occur in substitution?
- What interventions have been tried before? What were the goals and characteristics of these interventions, how were they implemented, and what were the outcomes for the student and for the teacher, parents, and significant others?
- What would motivate the teacher to work on this problem in the classroom setting? How would solving the problem behavior make the teacher’s day easier? What is the teacher’s commitment to work on the problem?

*Teacher Characteristics, Performance, Effectiveness, and Conditions* involve characteristics and conditions that teachers bring to the classroom that ultimately translate into the effective instructional skills and behaviors that maximize student learning. Also involved here are those school and schooling skills, activities, and interactions that teachers perform that make their instructional approaches effective.