on the two committees that most directly guide the PBSS: the school discipline/PBSS committee, and the building-level School Prevention, Review, and Intervention Team (SPRINT). Beyond this, PBSS and SPRINT-related activities at the grade or instructional team levels also are described.

# USING THE EFFECTIVE SCHOOLS BLUEPRINT TO ORGANIZE A SCHOOL’S COMMITTEE STRUCTURE

From an organizational perspective, an effective business needs to strategically plan, on at least an annual basis, for all of the components that are essential to its operational and functional success. To accomplish this, many businesses design their organizational maps or management charts to structure their divisions or departments in ways that mirror these essential components and facilitate their implementation success. Applying this business principle, an effective school’s committee structure should mirror the seven interdependent components of the effective school and schooling model described in Chapter 1: the strategic planning and organizational analysis and development; problem solving, teaming, and consultation processes; effective school, schooling, and professional development; academic instruction and intervention (PASS); behavioral instruction and intervention (PBSS); parent and community training, support, and outreach; and data management, evaluation, and accountability components (see also Chapter 1, Figure 1.1). Given this blueprint, six primary committees are suggested (see Figure 3.1). Significantly, data management, evaluation, and accountability activities are not centralized into a single committee. Instead, they are infused into the six recommended committees in ways that are relevant to each committee’s respective goals, objectives, activities, and expected outcomes.

Figure 3.1 A Blueprint for an Effective School-Level Committee Structure