education regulation or state law. Indeed, most states now have laws, policies, or regulations that specifically address one or more of these acts. For example, as of February 2012, 48 states, including the District of Columbia, have state laws or policies that relate to bullying in schools, with 14 of these states including cyberbullying in these statutes, and 38 of these states including electronic harassment. In addition, 48 states, including the District of Columbia, have state laws or policies that require a school policy that relates to cyberbullying, and 42 of these states require school sanctions (Hinduja & Patchin, 2012). Thus, all students need to be informed of district and school TTBHHPA policies at the beginning of every school year, programs to educate and train both students and staff in ways to prevent, identify, and respond to these situations should follow (see the relevant sections in this chapter), and active school-home-community efforts should be included as part of a planned, coordinated, and ongoing public relations and social marketing campaign.

To facilitate this entire process, this chapter builds on the information discussed in Chapter 6 on setting-specific special situations. Specifically, Chapter 6 described (a) five special situation domains; (b) the importance of focusing on special situation prevention; and (c) the importance of using a data-based, functional assessment problem-solving process to identify strategic or intensive intervention directions. This chapter extends this information, highlighting bullying as an exemplar for the behaviors represented along the TTBHHPA continuum.

Given the significant amount of research and practice focused on bullying over at least the past decade, we now know a great deal about its dimensions and dynamics—at the prevention, strategic intervention, and intensive need or crisis management levels (Bender & Losel, 2011; Cook et al., 2010; Leff & Crick, 2010; Swearer et al., 2010; Ttofi & Farrington, 2009; Vreeman & Carroll, 2007; Zins, Elias, & Maher, 2007). While we strongly encourage educational and mental health professionals to maintain their research and practice currency in the bullying and other special situation areas, we believe that the bullying research and practice areas provide a good blueprint to inform the broader student-specific special situation process. At the same time, it will soon become apparent that bullying rarely needs a formal, packaged bullying program or a specialized curriculum. Below, we describe a logical, defensible, and effective bullying