The prevention discussion focused on ways to promote prosocial student and staff interactions; to minimize students’ TTBHHPA interactions; and to decrease or eliminate these negative interactions when they occur at low or mild levels. The problem-solving discussion focused on determining why these behaviors occur at moderate or high frequency or significant or extreme levels and linking the special-situation analysis results to strategic intervention approaches. The crisis-management discussion revisited the Chapter 6 discussion, extending it to student-specific special situations.

At all levels, it is critical to involve parents and community stakeholders and partners. Relative to the home, outreach activities help reinforce parents’ support of schools’ comprehensive school safety and discipline programs, and they may involve training so that parents can use the same social skill and (adapted) accountability approaches as the school. Relative to the community, outreach might involve police, social service and community mental health agencies, government and juvenile justice personnel, the business and faith communities, and formal and informal neighborhood networks and associations. At the prevention level, the ultimate goal is to have parents and community agents universally recognize that TTBHHPA are unacceptable and preventable. At the strategic intervention level, community resources might provide the pivotal components that decrease the potential for continuing incidents among at-risk groups of students. Finally, at the crisis-management level, parents and community agents must collaborate to stop extreme or persistent TTBHHPA behavior or critical incidents even if they have occurred just one time.

## NOTE

1. Selected sections of this chapter were adapted, with permission, from Knoff, H. M. (2007). Teasing, taunting, bullying, harassment, and aggression: A school-wide approach to prevention, strategic intervention, and crisis management. In Zins, J., Elias, M., & Maher, C. (Eds.), Bullying, victimization, and peer harassment: Handbook of prevention and intervention in peer harassment, victimization, and bullying. New York: Haworth Press; and Knoff, H. M. (2009). Implementing effective school-wide student discipline and behavior management systems: Increasing