Matrix. For example, through instruction and role-play, they should be taught what proximity control looks like and what behavioral responses are expected when it is used. Similarly, they should be taught how to accept a consequence when it is delivered and what will occur if they accept or resist a consequence.

2. When needed, teachers should individually select the mildest consequence needed to motivate specific students toward future (hopefully, immediate) appropriate behavior. While Intensity II consequences are less intrusive or intensive (i.e., milder) than Intensity III consequences, different students may respond more quickly to different Intensity II consequences. Thus, when teachers know their students on an individual and personal level, they can strategically select, for each student, the consequences that motivate him or her toward the quickest change of behavior with the least amount of effort.

3. In general, most Intensity II consequences are effective with most Intensity II inappropriate behaviors. However, based on research or experience, some Intensity II behaviors (e.g., lying, taking materials or personal items without permission) have one or two consequences that have the highest probability of resulting success. These specific behaviors and consequences somehow need to be connected on the matrix.

4. The behavioral principle of “If you consecuate, you must educate” (see Chapter 1) needs to be followed after a consequence is delivered and completed. That is, after a consequence is over, students need to make amends for their inappropriate behavior and return to the setting where the offense originally occurred to practice the appropriate behavior they should have demonstrated at least three times.

5. The consistent use of the Behavioral Matrix helps students understand that it truly is a foundation to the classroom’s discipline and behavior management system and their personal self-management system. While teachers need to decide whether to deliver an Intensity II consequence publicly or privately with specific students, a periodic public delivery communicates and demonstrates that students will continuously be held accountable for both appropriate and inappropriate behavior.