includes e-mails, texts, blogs, social networking posts, videos and pictures, and other electronic messages that are intended to embarrass, ostracize, humiliate, bully, threaten, or harass one or more students. As noted in the introduction to this chapter, even though it occurs largely off campus, the vast majority of states have cyberbullying laws or policies that focus on school-aged students and that require a written school policy and school sanctions. This has occurred in response to a number of cyberbullying suicides and research linking cyberbullying to low self-esteem, suicidal thoughts, academic problems, school violence, delinquent behavior, and family problems.

While involving elements of teasing, taunting, bullying, and harassment, cyberbullying is somewhat unique because (a) the victims often do not know who the bully is or why they have been targeted; (b) an incident can involve entire schools, communities, states, and countries if the story, picture, or post goes viral; (c) the bullying may be easier—especially when the bully does not receive negative feedback, for example, from a group of bystanders; and (d) the bullying may be unintentionally more harmful given that the impact on a victim is not immediately visible. As noted earlier, districts and schools should discuss their policies with students and parents at the beginning of every school year, and follow-up training should occur in the areas of prevention, problem solving, and crisis response. Students must understand the potential effects of cyberbullying, that they will be held accountable if it occurs, and that they need to inform an appropriate adult if they know it does occur. While the ultimate goal is to prevent cyberbullying, schools still need to prepare a continuum of responses to deal with it strategically and definitively if preventative activities are not successful.

Hazing also has some similarities with bullying, except that some incidents have involved permanent physical damage, lifelong emotional traumas, and even death. Commonly associated with college-level students, hazing has increasingly crept into the high school culture. Hazing refers to “any activity expected of someone joining a group (or to maintain full status in a group) that humiliates, degrades, or risks emotional and/or physical harm, regardless of the person’s willingness to participate” (www.stophazing.org), and research has suggested that well over 40% of college students report experiencing hazing in high school (Allan & Madden, 2008). Examples of hazing include personal servitude or public