group (which has not received the reinforcement) toward the target student (who has lost the reinforcement for the peers). When used strategically and successfully, group contingencies not only use the natural impact of the peer group on individual student behavior but also can enhance the social status of the targeted student and potentially decrease peer teasing, taunting, bullying, harassment, hazing, and physical aggression.

The Good Behavior Game is a specific, evidence-based interdependent group contingency intervention that dates back to 1969 (Barrish, Saunders, & Wolf, 1969). It has a number of variations, and it has been used in kindergarten through high school classrooms (e.g., Donaldson, Vollmer, Krous, Downs, & Berard, 2011; Kleinman & Saigh, 2011; Leflot, van Lier, Onghena, & Colpin, 2010; Tingstrom, Sterling-Turner, & Wilczynski, 2006), as well as in certain common areas of the school (libraries and cafeteria; McCurdy, Lannie, & Barnabas, 2009). Most typically, the Good Behavior Game involves separating a classroom into teams of four to five members (some applications have separated the class into halves), identifying the appropriate behavior expected and the inappropriate behavior that will be counted against the team, and specifying the time period involved (from 30 minutes to a week or a month). Some studies using this intervention identified the criteria for earning a reinforcer ahead of time; others kept the criterion secret—revealing it only at the end of the specified time period. Some studies had the teams competing against each other; others had the teams competing against a criterion where all of the teams could earn a reinforcer. Overall, the Good Behavior Game has demonstrated a high degree of success in increasing on-task behavior, hand raising and waiting to be called on, keeping hands and feet to oneself, in-seat behavior, and following directions the first time, and in decreasing talking-out, talking without permission, and out-of-seat and aggressive behavior.

## Interventions to Decrease Inappropriate Student Behavior.

Clearly, some students exhibit significantly high, prolonged, intense, unpredictable, or resistant inappropriate behavior that requires a Tier 2 level of intervention. When students are choosing to demonstrate this behavior, motivational and accountability-focused interventions are among the needed strategies. A number of these strategies are described briefly below. They include (a) differential reinforcement of low, other, incompatible, or