associated behaviors such that the skills are exhibited. This instruction is most successful when specific skills are explicitly taught and modeled by the teacher, behaviorally practiced (through role-play) by students along with explicit teacher feedback, and transferred (or applied) and infused into real-life situations.

2. When teaching social, emotional, and behavioral skills, we need to recognize that social and behavioral skills often occur under conditions of emotionality, and that students need to be taught emotional control skills.

Our definition of skill mastery is that “skills are mastered when a student can independently demonstrate these skills even under conditions of emotionality.” Students learn how to respond successfully to emotional conditions when they are taught how to control their emotions—physiologically, cognitively, and affectively—and when the instruction includes simulations of these conditions, under supervision, so that students can successfully practice controlling their emotions and demonstrating appropriate behavior. Over time, this emotional control and coping instruction and the positive practice repetitions increase the probability that students will successfully use and demonstrate their skills when real emotional situations occur.

3. Many social, emotional, and behavioral skills are never fully mastered during childhood or adolescence, although the expectations for these skills increase over time. Thus, skill instruction must be ongoing and include instruction that teaches students to independently transfer the training across people, settings, situations, and conditions.

While students’ potential for mastery and self-management increases developmentally and maturationally over time, skill instruction must be ongoing and continual. Relative to instruction, we need to continually give students guided learning opportunities to practice and apply their social, emotional, and behavioral skills with different people, in different settings and situations, and under varying conditions. These transfer of training opportunities, once again, increase the probability that students will more independently use and apply these skills successfully in actual situations.