mastered before other more complex skills. Moreover, the calendar that organizes the skill instruction explicitly builds in opportunities for massed versus distributed student practice. This results in enough time for the students to learn, apply, and master newly taught skills, and later times when specific skills are revisited and reinforced across the school year, providing opportunities for extended and multi-situational practice (Cartledge & Milburn, 1995).
4. These programs use a universal language that is easy for students to learn, facilitates cognitive scripting and mediation, and helps to condition prosocial behaviors and choices leading to progressively more automatic behavior (Ladd & Mize, 1983; Meichenbaum, 1977).
5. These programs use instructional processes based on social learning theory that include teaching, modeling, role-playing, and providing performance feedback (Bandura, 1977; Goldstein, 1988). The programs also overtly plan and systematically transfer students’ skill use into different settings, with different people, at different times, and across different situations and circumstances—including those that involve conditions of emotionality (Stokes & Baer, 1977).
6. The programs are an integral part of an evidence-based positive behavioral support system (Dwyer, Osher, & Warger, 1998; Kerr & Nelson, 2010; Knoff, 2000).
7. The programs teach specific cognitive-behavioral skills in explicit and developmentally appropriate ways, and they can be adapted with students from different racial, cultural, language, and socioeconomic backgrounds and with different social, emotional, and behavioral needs (Cartledge & Milburn, 1996).

# APPLYING THE SCIENTIFIC CRITERIA USING THE STOP & THINK SOCIAL SKILLS PROGRAM

As noted in Chapter 2, the Stop & Think Social Skills Program (Knoff, 2001) is the social, emotional, and behavioral skills program used by Project ACHIEVE. Based on the cognitive and social learning theory research of Meichenbaum (1977) and Bandura (1977) and the social skills