schools in the same district, or it could occur between parents and school officials, or between school and community constituencies.

As discussed previously, consistency is a process, and the source, target, degree, setting, time frame, and impact of inconsistency needs to be analyzed before interventions can be planned and implemented. Given all of the individual and groups of students and adults, respectively, who could be contributing to any existing inconsistencies, the problem analysis process here can become quite complex. This complexity, nonetheless, needs to be tackled, because avoidance might ensure continued or escalating levels of TTBHHPA. Ultimately, interventions focused on re-establishing consistency need to be implemented with high levels of integrity and intensity and past the history or previous levels of inconsistency (see Chapters 8 and 9). They need to reduce and remove future inconsistency, rebuild and reinforce preventative and prosocial interactions, and decrease and eliminate any negative or inappropriate interactions that were established or strengthened by the previous inconsistency.

**A Third Special Situation.** The last two chapters focused on setting-specific and student-specific special situations, respectively. A third special situation, introduced for the first time here (and revised in Chapter 9), involves the more personal or idiosyncratic circumstances in students’ past or current lives that impact them in pervasive, and often devastating, ways. These circumstances might include current or past life events or crises, traumatic experiences or chronic stresses, or physical or emotional conditions or disabilities. More explicitly, these may involve parental divorce or long-term unemployment, the loss of a parent or sibling, being homeless or adopted, having a physical or learning disability, physical or sexual abuse, or adjusting to a chronic or acute physiological or medical condition. These relate to TTBHHPA behavior in that they may help to explain some of the prevailing conditions that relate directly or indirectly to the behavior of students who are aggressors, victims, or negative or uninvolved bystanders. For example, the anger or rage that some students feel due to excessive levels of past taunting, bullying, or harassment that they experienced may help to explain their own current taunting, bullying, or harassment behavior as directed to others. Conversely, the anxiety or emotional trauma that some students feel due to excessive levels of past taunting, bullying, or harassment may help to explain their complete