# Building-Level Committee Infrastructure

**School Leadership Team**  
- Curriculum and instruction committee  
- School climate and student discipline committee  
- Grade- and building-level early intervention/SPRINT team  
- Parent involvement/community outreach committee  
- Professional development/teacher mentoring and support committee  

Source: Project ACHIEVE Press. Dr. Howie Knoff (author).

Briefly, the School Leadership Team (SLT) coordinates and guides all of the shared leadership planning and implementation processes in a school, overseeing the activities of the five other committees and the grade-level or instructional teams. This committee is made up of the school’s administrators and the chairs or co-chairs of the other school-level committees and a representative sample of teachers, related services staff, support staff, and selected others. While district administrators, parents, community leaders, and students may be invited to attend some meetings, they are not permanent or standing members of the SLT.

The SLT is primarily responsible for overseeing activities related to the strategic planning and organizational analysis and development component within the effective school and schooling model. Thus, it makes many site-based management and related organizational and fiscal decisions, and it is ultimately responsible for planning (e.g., through the annual school improvement plan) and evaluating all school-level and student-specific outcomes. Like all of the other committees, the SLT meets on a monthly basis, usually just before or after these other school-level committee meetings. With the chairs or co-chairs present as members of the SLT, they can report on their respective committee meetings and activities each month so that all SLT members are duly briefed and can coordinate and collaborate, as appropriate, across school committees, teams, and staff. All of this facilitates a seamless bottom-up (i.e., from individual staff to grade levels to school-level committees to SLT and administration)