6. Choose the reinforcer to be received for the target behavior, determine the reinforcement schedule, and specify how the reinforcer will be delivered.  
7. Role-play to mastery the behavior and reinforcement process (student/teacher), especially focusing on times when the student is unsuccessful and a token needs to be taken away (i.e., the accepting a consequence skill, and the “If you consequate, you must educate” principle).  
8. Choose the number of tokens that will be given to the target student and select a time period for implementing the intervention. Initially, the number of tokens should give the student a near 100% probability of success.  
9. Develop a monitoring, charting, and evaluation protocol, and explain it to the student.  
10. Transfer the training, implement, and apply.  
11. When the student has had three successful time periods (e.g., days) where he or she earned the reinforcement, decrease the number of tokens based on both the number of tokens earned during the period of success and the need to maintain the student’s success during the first part of the intervention.  
12. On a weekly (or more frequent, as needed) basis, meet with the student to evaluate his or her progress and discuss future targets and reinforcers.  
13. Evaluate, thin, and fade the reinforcement contingencies over time, and move to student self-management.  

In addition to response cost, there are two other variations of this intervention: bonus response cost and the response cost lottery. In the first variation, students can earn bonus tokens when they retain a specific number of tokens during a prescribed period of time. In fact, the number of bonus tokens can be tiered. That is, if students have ten tokens at the beginning of a specified period, they might earn one bonus token if they have three to five tokens left after the period, two bonus tokens if they have six to eight tokens left, and three bonus tokens if they have nine or ten tokens left. By tiering the bonus tokens, there is an additional built-in incentive to demonstrate more appropriate behavior over time, higher levels of appropriate behavior may result, the total number of tokens available can