- Most fights do not occur through spontaneous combustion. Typically, there is a period of increasing tension and disagreement between the two students prior to the fight; the fight may have actually been planned, or there is advanced warning that it might occur; and there is some posturing and verbal confrontation between the two students immediately prior to the fight.

- Usually, there is some level of mutual resignation or a tacit, or even explicit, agreement between the two students that the fight will occur. While some fights do involve a clear aggressor and victim, these fights are rare and one-sided, and they involve bullying and taunting (given the nonaggressive reaction of the victim) more than fighting.

- While they often occur in a common area of the school, most fights are staged as far away as possible from any staff members who are in that area. At the same time, the buildup to the fight often attracts most of the other students in the vicinity, and they often form a circle (which we call the ring of terror) around the possible combatants. In some schools, the students in the ring of terror lock arms to increase the difficulty of adult intercession. During the buildup to the fight, these students also are often encouraging or exhorting the fight to occur.

- If one of the two involved students wants to walk away from the fight, either the ring of terror does not break (with some students pushing the student back into the ring), or it breaks, but then the escaping student is teased or taunted—perhaps for the rest of his or her school year.

While there may be other, relevant variables in the other special situation domains to fully explain the fight situation (e.g., not enough adult supervision, the absence of a preventative PBSS, mixed messages on fighting between school and home), the peer dynamics described above virtually compel the fight. Indeed, when faced with a peer group that increases the emotionality of the prefight situation, and that either does not allow one or both students to physically walk away or ridicules any student who does walk away, the chances that the fight will occur (unless stopped by the adults) are almost assured. Given this, in linking assessment to intervention, it is necessary to develop strategies, including consequences, tailored to both the students involved in the fight and the peers in the ring of terror.