buy-in, initial implementation, and long-term institutionalization of the PBSS. The mission, role, and function of the school discipline/PBSS committee is especially emphasized as are the other school-level committees that collectively support the multi-tiered system of services, supports, strategies, and programs needed to help all students to be successful.

- **Chapter 4** (Behavioral Accountability, Student Motivation, and Staff Consistency) describes the importance of a schoolwide approach to identifying the behavioral expectations for students in their classrooms and across the common areas of the school (with positive responses or reinforcements) and the different intensities of inappropriate behavior (with corrective responses, consequences, administrative responses, and interventions). This approach is intended to motivate and hold students accountable for appropriate behavior while preventing, decreasing, and eliminating inappropriate behavior.

- **Chapter 5** (Teaching Social, Emotional, and Behavioral Skills) describes the scientific principles underlying effective social, emotional, and behavioral skills instruction programs and emphasizes the importance of having general education teachers teach and reinforce these skills as part of classroom management and student self-management.

- **Chapter 6** (School Safety and Crisis Prevention, Intervention, and Response) describes specific approaches that help staff and students to create positive and safe common school areas, respond to inappropriate behavior when it occurs, and analyze and address serious or significantly problematic situations when they occur in these settings. The functional components of a safety audit also are described, as are the ways to prepare for and address different crisis situations.

- **Chapter 7** (Teasing, Taunting, Bullying, Harassment, Hazing, and Physical Aggression) discusses comprehensive, evidence-based, and ecologically sound approaches to address these problems at the whole-school, existing group, and individual student levels of prevention, strategic intervention, and crisis or intensive need. A functional assessment approach that helps explain why specific circumstances or events are occurring is