In the case of a suspension, there are a number of advantages of starting the SPRINT process at the beginning of the suspension and before the student returns to school. The most notable advantages include the following: (a) the behavioral situation can be effectively debriefed prior to re-entry; (b) a diagnostic process can begin to identify the underlying reasons for the inappropriate behavior; (c) a re-entry plan can be developed; and (d) an intervention plan, based on the results of the diagnostic process, to change the student’s future behavior may be ready. More specifically, the following actions should be completed during the time of the suspension:

1. Debriefing interviews can be completed to describe and analyze the dynamics of the critical incident—thus beginning the functional assessment process. These interviews can be conducted jointly by administrators and mental health or related services staff. They can be conducted in a neutral setting (e.g., a district office or community setting) and at a time when the emotionality that often exists immediately after the event and in the principal’s office is removed—in both time and place. Finally, these interviews can involve, as needed, parents, staff, and other students (e.g., in the case of a fight) so that the critical incident can be completely debriefed, re-entry steps can be outlined, and everyone involved can receive a clear message that all of the students involved will be held accountable for their inappropriate behavior.

2. Diagnostic or psychological interviews and other assessments, as needed, can be completed with the student(s) involved. These assessments help identify underlying social, emotional, or behavioral factors contributing to the inappropriate behavior, linking them to strategic or intensive interventions that will change the precipitating triggers or conditions. If these assessments are completed and the resulting intervention plans are developed prior to a student’s return to school following the suspension, a higher level of comfort and confidence may exist that the past behavior has been resolved, and the potential for future appropriate behavior has been established.

3. Some interventions may actually occur. For example, in the case of a student fight, the involved students may be required to re-enact and debrief the original situation, and then role-play (a) social, emotional, or behavioral ways to prevent similar situations from reoccurring and