may have enough information to recommend a single model to its SLT and school staff.

If the school is planning to work with an outside (contracted) PBSS project director (or consultant) who will guide the implementation process, a formal Request for Proposals (RFP) asking for descriptions of applicants’ background and expertise as well as the PBSS models that they use may be needed. Eventually, the team should interview the top two or three project director applicants responding to the RFP to determine who and whose model is best suited to their school. This process may include visits to one or more PBSS schools using each applicant, interviews, reviews of materials and products, and reference checks. As part of the interview process, each applicant might come on-site to the school, do a presentation for the PBSS study team or the entire staff, and meet with small groups of staff to allow for questions and discussion.

If the school is planning to use an internal (district- or school-employed) PBSS project director, the identification and selection process should be determined and implemented.

**Action 1.7: Final PBSS Model and Project Director Recommendation.** Here, the study team makes a final decision on its recommended PBSS model, approach, and PBSS project director and shares these results with the SLT and administration.

**Action 1.8: Faculty Briefing, Discussion, Decision on PBSS Model and Project Director.** With the endorsement of the SLT and administration, the study team shares their recommendation on the PBSS model, approach, and project director with the entire staff. Prior to this announcement, the administration and SLT need to decide how the staff will be involved in the final decision. That is, for example, are they advisory to an administrative decision, do they have a formal vote in the final decision, or is their consent desired but not necessary? Regardless of their formal or informal involvement, a staff consensus of at least 80% support typically is recommended to proceed.

**Action 1.9: Administrative Agreement and Contracting.** If needed, the school administrator discusses the formally recommended (and agreed upon) PBSS model, approach, and project director with the district