11. Interventions must be implemented with the appropriate integrity and the needed intensity.  
12. The severity of a student’s behavioral problem does not necessarily predict the intensity of the intervention.  

In the end, the ultimate success of the social, emotional, and behavioral PBSS side of a multi-tiered initiative is its ability (a) to strengthen students’ prosocial skills, resilience, and protective factors; (b) to prevent student problems from occurring or reoccurring; and (c) to address the strategic and intensive needs of challenging, unresponsive, and unsuccessful students. This is not an impossible task—but it sometimes is a complex task. Indeed, it takes vision, commitment, coordination, funding, and personnel management. Many of the blueprints needed for success have been discussed in this chapter and book. At this point, the blueprints need planning, resources, training, personnel, and action in order to take shape. Only then can the blueprints move from vision to reality.  

## NOTE  

1. This chapter was adapted from Knoff, H. M. (2009). *Implementing Response-to-Intervention at the school, district, and state levels: Functional assessment, data-based problem solving, and evidence-based academic and behavioral interventions*. Little Rock, AR: Project ACHIEVE Press; and has sections taken directly from Knoff, H. M. (2010). Social, emotional, and behavioral interventions. In H. M. Knoff & C. Dyer, *RTI²—Response to Instruction and Intervention: Implementing successful academic and behavioral intervention systems* (pp. 255–314). Rexford, NY: International Center for Leadership in Education.  

