personnel have successfully applied the seven scientific criteria discussed in this chapter to the individual histories, backgrounds, and needs of their students, staff, and communities. These successes also have occurred, in some instances, because the schools and districts recognized the need to move away from previously adopted character education programs to an evidence-based social skills program.

**Character Education Versus Social Skills Programs.** In contrast with the seven criteria or characteristics of an evidence-based social skills program, most character education programs either are not evidence-based or do not adhere to a large number of these criteria (Knoff, 2005a).

Indeed, most character education programs talk about (rather than teach and practice) social, emotional, or behavioral skills. They discuss constructs of behavior (e.g., respect, responsibility, cooperation) rather than teach specific behaviors, and they present these constructs at times (especially at the preschool and elementary school levels) when students do not have the higher order thinking skills to understand either the constructs or their associated behaviors. Many character education curricula do not modify their instruction for different age levels of students or for diverse learners or learners with special education needs. Finally, most character education programs are not integrated into a schoolwide PBSS.

While states that have statutes or requirements in this area consider social skills programs as character education programs, it is important to note that most character education programs are not designed as social skills programs. At the very least (see the last section in this chapter), if a school or district is thinking about adopting a character education program for its PBSS, its selection committee should compare and contrast the program with the evidence-based criteria above as well as against one or two evidence-based social skills programs.

**Summary.** An evidence-based social, emotional, or behavioral skills program provides an important, necessary foundation to a schoolwide PBSS program that has student self-management as a primary goal. From an instructional perspective, a social skills program teaches its skills in pedagogically sound ways so that students learn, master, and can apply their skills in a variety of real-life situations, including those that involve conditions of emotionality. Effective social skills programs also can be