two-year term, the first and fourth grade representatives a three-year term, and the second and fifth grade representatives a four-year term.

# THE COMMITTEE MISSION, ROLE, AND FUNCTION DOCUMENT

As recommended in the effective committee process section above, when a committee is newly established or at the end of every school year, its mission, role, and function document should be written or reviewed. This document summarizes each committee’s mission, goals, outcomes, and evaluation processes to ensure that the committee is working in ways that are consistent with both the school’s mission and its annual SIP. In addition, this document provides a month-to-month overview of the most important activities that occur at each committee meeting and the fixed and fluid agenda items at those meetings. The fixed agenda items are those items that are discussed or reported on at virtually every monthly meeting. The fluid agenda items are those that occur less frequently, perhaps only one to four times per year.

A sample mission, role, and function document for the school discipline/PBSS and building-level SPRINT committees is available in Appendices 1 and 2, respectively, at the end of this chapter. Both of these committees are emphasized because of their direct importance to the PBSS process (see the committee descriptions earlier in this chapter). Once written, the SLT ensures that the committee mission, role, and function documents from every school committee are compiled into a single document that is available to the entire staff. This helps everyone to understand the individual responsibilities of each committee as well as how specific committees need to interface and collaborate.

# THE MOST TYPICAL SCHOOL DISCIPLINE/PBSS COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES AND THEIR INFUSION INTO GRADE-LEVEL OR INSTRUCTIONAL TEAM ACTIVITIES