outcomes have been accomplished. As is evident from the PBSS goals above, evaluations occur at system, school, staff, student, and home or community levels, and at the prevention, strategic intervention, and intensive need or crisis management levels.

In the data-based, functional assessment problem-solving presentation in Chapter 8, the six ways to collect data were introduced through the acronym RIOTSS. Critically, these data collection approaches are the same whether they are used during functional assessment or formative and summative evaluation. In fact, the only difference involves the questions that the data help to answer. During functional assessment, the question is, “Why are the problems we are concerned about occurring?” During evaluation, the question is, “Are our interventions to solve the problems working (formative evaluation), and have they successfully resolved the problem (summative evaluation)?” Thus, formative and summative evaluations utilize data that can be collected in the following ways:

**Review** (e.g., records, work samples, planned assessments, databases);  
**Interview** (e.g., parents, current teachers, current intervention specialists, the student);  
**Observe** (e.g., in the classroom, during assessments or interventions, in related settings);  
**Test** (e.g., group or individual cognitive, achievement, behavioral, or personality assessments);  
**Survey** (e.g., a class of students, a grade level of teachers); and  
**Self-Report** (e.g., when an individual, including the student of concern, provides relevant information without prompting).

As noted in Chapter 8, all of these approaches have relative strengths and weaknesses depending on the focus of the evaluations. Ultimately, what is needed are reliable and valid data that are collected from multiple settings and sources, using different instruments and approaches.