implemented or in progress. Over the next decade, the staff continued to adapt the PBSS to the needs of the students, school, and community—and they built their capacity to the degree that Project ACHIEVE activities were largely implemented independently and with the needed integrity and intensity.

The following outcomes were documented:

- Total discipline referrals to the principal’s office dropped from 56.1 referrals per 100 students during the baseline year prior to project implementation to 13.0 referrals per 100 students during the first two years of the project (less than one referral per school day over an entire year). Total discipline referrals dropped to 3.0 referrals per 100 students during the last three years of implementation (less than one referral per week over the school year).
- The number of grade retentions was 2.0 retentions per 100 students during the baseline year, 2.5 students per 100 students for the first two years of project implementation, and 3.6 retentions per 100 students for the next three years.
- Special education placements were 1.9 placements per 100 students for the baseline year versus an average of 2.8 placements per 100 students for the first two years of the project versus an average of 3.0 placements per 100 students during the last three years of the project.
- On the Texas state proficiency test (Texas Assessment of Academic Skills; TAAS) reading section, taken by Hotchkiss’s third through sixth graders, 68.7% of the students passed the test during the baseline year, 67.6% passed the test during the next two years, and 81.7% passed during the next three years through the 2000 school year.
- On the TAAS math section, again taken by the school’s third through sixth graders, 55.1% of the students passed the test during the baseline year, 65.1% passed the test during the next two years, and 78.6% passed during the next three years.
- On the TAAS writing test, taken only by the school’s fourth graders, 80.5% passed the test during the baseline year, 77.6% passed the test during the next two years, and 90.9% passed during the next three years.