CWT data provide information on individual teachers and their students as well as observed classroom management approaches and outcomes. The CWT process and protocol should be discussed with classroom teachers before their use so that they understand why specific behaviors are being observed and what represents effective behavior. After enough observations have occurred—so that the data are both reliable and valid—the CWT results are pooled, analyzed, reported, and discussed with individual teachers (or even classrooms). These discussions focus on reinforcing the effective classroom management interactions that were observed, increasing nonexistent or lower levels of appropriate behavior, and eliminating or changing inappropriate behavior. CWT data from individual teachers also may be combined across time and classrooms with other observation or behavior rating data to get a global sense of how a grade level of teachers, or an entire school, is doing relative to the first six PBSS goals outlined at the beginning of this chapter. Thus, this tool can be used in both formative and summative assessments to facilitate classroom management improvements and to document that they have occurred.

**Evaluating Staff Expertise in Behavioral Interventions.** It is essential that schools and districts have a wide range of strategic and intensive social, emotional, and behavioral interventions available for students demonstrating challenges in these areas and enough experts to facilitate their implementation. In Chapter 9, a number of these interventions were outlined in the context of the seven high-hit reasons why some students do not demonstrate effective self-management or social competency behaviors and skills. These, and other, interventions can be integrated into a *Behavioral Intervention Survey* that is used to evaluate the consultation and intervention expertise of the school or district staff members who are most responsible for developing social, emotional, or behavioral interventions for challenging students.

A sample Behavioral Intervention Survey is provided in Table 10.5. The survey has brief descriptions of a range of interventions that should be available in any district (additional ones can be added at any time). Related services professionals (e.g., school psychologists, counselors, social workers), special education teachers, and other behavioral intervention specialists individually complete the survey, rating their ability to consult on and independently implement each intervention along a five-point scale