When the change process is working, performance deficit students recognize and acknowledge their inappropriate behavior and accept the resulting consequences. However, performance deficit students must also be held accountable for correcting their inappropriate behavior (e.g., by apologizing, cleaning or repairing an affected area, or completing community service activities), and they still must practice or demonstrate the expected, appropriate behavior—even if after the fact. Thus, performance deficit students are held accountable for both their inappropriate behavior and their choice to not behave appropriately.

**6. Social, emotional, and behavioral skills need to be taught, learned, and mastered first in order for incentives and consequences to motivate future appropriate and independent behavior.**

Clearly, if students have never learned and mastered a skill, no amount of motivation (i.e., incentives or consequences) is going to teach it to them. While motivation may enhance a student’s desire to learn, effective instruction is the only thing that facilitates learning.

By way of analogy, if a student has not mastered the academic skills evaluated on a series of exams, the failing grades (the consequence for not learning) will not teach the student those skills. Similarly, if a student does not have the emotional skill of controlling his or her anger in class, disciplinary referrals to the office (again, the consequence) will not change this behavior. In fact, the only way to change this situation is to teach the student how to maintain emotional self-control or how to demonstrate specific conflict prevention or resolution skills when he or she is beginning to get angry.

When students are offered rewards for demonstrating skills or behaviors that they cannot do, an emotional and/or behavioral response typically results. Emotionally, the students may attempt to demonstrate the skill, fail, and become frustrated because they realize there is no hope for success. Behaviorally, the students may not attempt the skill for the same reason. Both scenarios may result in student distrust, anger, or withdrawal from with the person who offered a reward that was unattainable.

**7. Incentives and consequences must be meaningful to the students, and they need to be strong enough to motivate students even when**