engagement, and cooperation during learning opportunities. Factor 3 evaluates staff members’ perceptions of how well their administrators and colleagues hold students accountable for appropriate behavior, how consistently school rules are encouraged and enforced, and whether there is positive school spirit and low numbers of office discipline referrals. Factor 4 evaluates staff members’ perceptions of whether their colleagues contribute to a positive school climate due to their satisfaction, involvement, cohesiveness, and productivity. Finally, Factor 5 evaluates staff members’ perceptions of how safe and secure the school is during and after school and whether students and staff work together to keep the school clean and attractive.

Like the SSISC, the SESDS often is used in a pre-post-post format, and its results are reported to the faculty using one of the three feedback approaches described above. Finally, the feedback and discussion sessions may highlight the need to further validate the results, to address identified concerns, and to take specific actions to sustain the recognized strengths. Ultimately, any recommended actions or interventions should be consistent with the school’s current PBSS goals, action plans, and existing initiatives.

Evaluating Office Discipline Referrals. One of the important goals of a schoolwide PBSS is to decrease school suspensions and expulsions, discipline referrals to the principal’s office, the need for classroom timeouts, and other minor classroom disruptions that disrupt the academic program and process. Beyond simply documenting the frequency of these disciplinary events over time, it is essential to collect contextual data that can help the functional assessment process. For example, rather than knowing the finite number of office discipline referrals (ODR) that occurred across a school or for a specific grade level last month, it is better to also know (a) when and where the discipline problems occurred; (b) whether the infractions involved one student, a small group, or a large group of students; (c) what led up to or triggered the event; (d) who sent the students to the office; and (e) what consequences followed the event. In this way, ODR patterns can be identified and further analyzed, high-problem settings and times can be discerned, and classroom or special situation analyses and interventions can be conducted and implemented.

The Automated Discipline Data, Review, and Evaluation Software System (ADDRESS) is a free downloadable software application that uses