they need to behave appropriately in the common school area. From this, the analysis determines the reasons for the gap. For example, do the students have (a) skill deficits, where they lack the needed skills because they have not been taught, learned, or mastered them; (b) performance or motivational deficits where they have mastered these skills but refuse to demonstrate them, or choose to demonstrate inappropriate behaviors; (c) skill or performance deficits due to inconsistent instruction or inconsistently delivered incentives or consequences; or (d) a combination of the above conditions.

Beyond this, the analysis also should investigate the demographic (e.g., gender, grade level, race or cultural background) and situational (e.g., number of years in the school, current teachers, academic or peer group status) characteristics of the four groups of students and whether these characteristics are impacting how they are interacting in the school area of concern. These analyses help uncover important dynamics that may be contributing to the problem—for example, racial issues or situations where a senior class or a group of student athletes are using their status to cause problems and intimidate other students in a specific common school area.

By way of example, when functionally analyzing the hallway behavior in a middle school, and the degree of running, pushing, and shoving that occurs in between most periods, there are student questions that need to be answered:

- Are there specific students, groups of students, or grade levels of students who are the primary offenders? Are there specific students who are the typical victims? Are there specific students who consistently reinforce the inappropriate behavior? Are there specific students whose presence or actions result either in less inappropriate behavior by the primary offenders or more appropriate student behavior in general?
- Do the different groups above vary by gender, race or culture, socioeconomic status, or where they live in the community? Do they differ by the elementary schools that they attended, by their grade point average (GPA), or by the teachers whose classes they attend?
- Are there certain times or events during the school day, places in the school, or other characteristics or conditions present when the running, pushing, and shoving largely occurs? Are there other times, places, or