# THE IMPORTANCE OF SOCIAL, EMOTIONAL, AND BEHAVIORAL SKILLS INSTRUCTION: REVISITED

Students’ positive self-esteem, self-management, and self-efficacy skills and status significantly predict their academic engagement and academic achievement (Goodman & Schaughency, 2001; McNeely, Nonemaker, & Blum, 2002; Payton et al., 2008; Zins, Weissberg, Wang, & Walberg, 2004). Conversely, students’ lack of social-emotional competency correlates with them being less interpersonally and behaviorally successful in school and to a progressive decrease in connectedness, from elementary through high school, that negatively affects their academic performance, behavior, and health (Blum & Libbey, 2004). By high school, as many as 40% of students may be chronically disengaged from school (Klem & Connell, 2004). Moreover, in a national survey of almost 150,000 sixth through twelfth graders (Benson, 2006), only 29% to 45% reported that they had such social competencies as empathy, social decision making, and conflict resolution skills.

In Chapter 1, it was noted that research (Payton et al., 2008) reviewing over 200 studies of school-based programs revealed that classroom time spent addressing the social, emotional, and behavioral skills and needs of students helped to increase their academic achievement. In addition, the students involved were better behaved, more positive, and less anxious and earned higher grades and test scores. Critically, updated meta-analyses from this research (Durlak, Weissberg, Dymnicki, Taylor, & Schellinger, 2011) involving 213 school-based social, emotional, and behavioral learning programs and 270,034 kindergarten through high school students indicated that these students demonstrated significantly improved social and emotional skills, attitudes, and behaviors when compared with control students. These students also demonstrated academic gains that reflected an improvement of 11 percentile points.

On a deeper level, this research analyzed the outcomes of the 213 studies across six different student outcomes: (a) social and emotional skills, (b) attitudes toward self and others, (c) positive social behaviors, (d) conduct problems, (e) emotional distress, and (f) academic performance. The studies also were analyzed by their use of social, emotional, and