skills in the classroom, how to task-analyze skills, how to set behavioral expectations for students, and how to use consequences to teach social skills.

Skills Skillstreaming (published by Research Press; website: www.research press.com, www.skillstreaming.com). Skillstreaming is a prosocial skills training program available for three instructional levels: early childhood—preschool through Grade 1, elementary school—Grades 2 to 5, and adolescent—Grades 6 to 12. It focuses on addressing the social skill needs of students who display aggression, immaturity, withdrawal, or other problem behaviors. It is designed to help youngsters develop competence in dealing with interpersonal conflicts, learn to use self-control, and contribute to a positive classroom atmosphere. The program uses a four-part training approach involving teacher modeling, student role-playing, group performance feedback, and transfer of training (practicing the skills at home and in the community). Two video training programs are available for staff training.

The Stop & Think Social Skills Program has been discussed earlier in this chapter (School materials published by Cambium Learning/Sopris West Educational Services: www.projectachieve.info/productsandresources/thestopthinksocial skillsprogramschool.html; Home/Parent materials published by Project ACHIEVE Press: www.projectachieve.info/productsandresources/parentstopthink book.html).

# SELECTING A SKILLS PROGRAM AT THE DISTRICT LEVEL

As part of a prekindergarten through high school health, mental health, and wellness curriculum (see Chapter 2) that is committed to teaching social, emotional, and behavioral skills to all of its students, the choice of an appropriate program or curriculum should be a district-level decision. That is, rather than having, for example, different elementary schools in the same district make independent (and, likely, different) choices on a social,