part of the section included in the school’s parent and student handbook for the beginning of each new school year.

## Phase 6: With All Faculty and Students

In Phase 6, the Behavioral Matrix is rolled out to the student body. Typically, the rollout involves a first day big splash event. It then moves to a strategic series of implementation events during the following two to three weeks. Eventually, the matrix involves more implicit and embedded daily, hourly, and teachable moment events to the point where the process is self-managed, internalized, and automatic for both students and faculty. Formative and summative evaluations occur throughout the rollout to internalization process—both specific to students’ use of the matrix and more broadly to the discipline, behavior management, and self-management outcomes connected to the entire PBSS.

### Postscript.

The Behavioral Matrix should be developed in a time-efficient way, but the process still must allow enough time for discussion, consensus-building, and commitment both to its underlying principles and to the broader need for consistent, schoolwide accountability policies, procedures, and practices. Critically, the process—between staff, administration, students, and parents—of developing the matrix is as important as the product represented by the document itself. That is, if the document is not accompanied by cross-staff commitment and consistent implementation, then the desired student outcomes will not result.

Significantly, aside from the short, periodic reviews recommended above, an entire behavioral matrix does not need a comprehensive re-examination by a grade-level team for at least three years. Even then, it is rare for a matrix to require substantial rebuilding, and the re-examination typically is accomplished in one meeting. The only exception to this is when there has been a significant change in the makeup (e.g., behaviorally, demographically, or geographically) of the student body or if there has been a sizable turnover of faculty. If either of these occurs at any time, it may be advantageous—relative to content, commitment, and consistency—for the matrix to be largely rebuilt. Thus, under most circumstances, the time invested in initially developing the matrix is distributed across a number of years, resulting in long-term increases in student engagement and self-