of education often require that students receive coursework in different health, mental health, and wellness areas at the secondary level. Typically, this coursework involves information and skills training in areas related to physical and emotional health, drugs and alcohol, sexual health and relationships, cultural and racial sensitivity, gender differences and interactions, career exploration and job skills, bullying and harassment, and tolerance as related to social justice and discrimination. Based on our experience, the units related to these course areas often are not logically organized into or presented as an articulated, scaffolded health, mental health, and wellness curriculum with an integrated scope and sequence, coordinated curricula and instruction, and staff members who meet periodically to ensure that desired student outcomes are accomplished. Thus, the skills instruction across these units often is inconsistent, disjointed, redundant, and sometimes even contradictory.

Given this, the selection of a social, emotional, and behavioral skills program at a district’s secondary level may begin with a health, mental health, and wellness summit where all of the middle and high school staff who oversee, teach, or are interested in these areas meet together to plan. The goal of the meeting is to form a task force (that includes students and parents) that (a) analyzes the goals and outcomes of the required or existing coursework units; (b) identifies additional needed or desired instruction; and (c) develops an articulated and scaffolded outline and sequence of course content that is connected with descriptions of the staff expertise needed to teach each unit. The task force also evaluates existing curricula to identify specific social, emotional, and behavioral skill gaps and to determine if there are areas of potential inconsistency or contradiction. Based on this latter evaluation, there may be no need for an additional or specialized social, emotional, or behavioral skills program as discussed in this chapter. That is, the skills that the secondary level students need to learn may already be present within the existing health, mental health, and wellness curricula. At this point, task force members need to make sure that the skills are being taught in a logical sequence—from grade to grade and unit to unit, and that the instruction consistently conforms to the seven scientific criteria of an effective skills program discussed in this chapter.

Eventually, the task force should integrate the secondary level’s newly designed health, mental health, and wellness program and process with the one at the elementary level.