they end up reinventing the wheel. At times, this results in a delay of effective instruction, services, and supports for some students that, in turn, exacerbates their problems or delays their success.

In education, the term *articulation* refers to the planned and systematic transfer of school, staff, and student information, interventions, and other lessons learned from one school year to the beginning of the next school year. Typically, this transfer occurs from one classroom teacher to next year’s classroom teacher, from one grade-level team to the next year’s grade-level team, from the members of each building-level committee to the next year’s members on the same committees, from one administrative team to the next year’s administrative team, or from one school staff to the next year’s school staff.

Unfortunately, many schools do not organize their articulation processes as planned, annual events. Indeed, at a school or committee level, organizational goals are discussed and determined, strategies are planned and implemented, outcomes are evaluated and attained, and progress is realized and celebrated every year. However, when these strategies and successes are not transferred systematically and systemically to the next school year, organizational progress is disrupted, professional momentum is interrupted, productive time and energy are wasted, and staff become disenchanted and burned out. This lack of coordination and articulation represents organizational inefficiency.

Similarly, at the grade or teacher level, professional development, supervision, and technical assistance is delivered in most schools every year—often focused on evidence-based practices, differentiated instruction, and effective classroom management for all students. Yet, when the knowledge, skills, and confidence that teachers obtain because of this training are not shared across teachers and grade- or instruction-level teams, are not progressively built on from year to year, and are not provided to new staff at the beginning of each new school year, instructional collaboration, consistency, effectiveness, and efficiency are undermined and school success becomes more transitory. This lack of coordination and articulation results in a loss of information, experience, time, and success, and reflects professional inefficiency.

Finally, at the classroom or student levels, functional assessment, data-based problem solving, consultation, and strategic intervention are delivered every year—focused on students with significant academic or