# Implementation Year 1

As noted above, Implementation Year 1 typically starts at the beginning of a new school year during the staff preparation days just prior to the students returning to school. The activities below are largely coordinated by the school discipline/PBSS committee, but, given the interdependence between students’ academic and social, emotional, and behavioral success, virtually all of the other school-level committees are involved at some point. This is especially true of the SPRINT teams who use the data-based functional assessment problem-solving process (see Chapter 8) when individual students are exhibiting progressive, resistant, or significantly challenging behavior. The activities below are organized in a preferred, but not absolute, sequence. Individual schools, guided by their SLT and school discipline/PBSS committees, need to make strategic decisions, based on staff, resources, and other aspects of their school improvement plan, as to the best timing and approaches for implementation.

## Implementation Year 1, Semester 1

**Action 1.1: Initial School Discipline/PBSS Committee Meeting.** During the staff preparation days prior to the new school year, the school discipline/PBSS committee should have its first meeting of the year. During this meeting, it should review its annual goals, objectives, outcomes, and activities as well as the upcoming training and other events that will begin the schoolwide PBSS process for the new school year. If needed, group and other processes to help the committee function effectively will be reviewed along with any important information based on events during the summer.

**Action 1.2: Social Skills Training for the Entire Staff.** During the staff preparation days prior to the new school year, the entire staff participates in a full-day in-service training to learn the buildingwide implementation of the chosen social, emotional, and behavioral skills program.

This in-service should be followed up during the first weeks of school with (a) grade- or instructional-team meetings to allow teachers to develop and practice selected social skill lessons, (b) observations of social skill demonstrations in the classrooms by the primary in-service trainers (with opportunities to debrief these experiences), and (c) the implementation of