demonstrating significant behavioral or mental health challenges (Goal 2)
- Effective recruitment, professional development, and retention strategies so that every school in Arkansas would have fully qualified staff capable of using research-based strategies to teach students across the general education through special education continuum (Goal 3)

SIG Goal 2 focused on implementing Positive Behavioral Support Systems (PBSS) using the Project ACHIEVE blueprint in schools and districts across Arkansas as well as piloting school-based mental health partnerships between select school and community mental health center grantees over a four-year period. Selected statewide outcomes included the following:
- District Leadership Teams (DLT) from 95 Arkansas school districts attended a series of five PBSS trainings on different facets of Project ACHIEVE’s PBSS and Response-to-Instruction and Intervention (RTI²) approaches. Each DLT included a district-level administrator, elementary school principal, general and special education teachers, and at least one related services professional.
- A cadre of 110 school psychologists and counselors from across the state were parallel-trained in the same PBSS/RTI² content areas.
- By the end of the SIG, 40 schools representing 26 school districts were involved in the on-site implementation of the three-year PBSS process. These schools received intensive training in all facets of Project ACHIEVE’s PBSS and RTI² and School Prevention, Review, and Intervention Team (SPRINT) approaches as well as ongoing on-site consultation and technical assistance from SIG staff. For example, during SIG Year 4, 78 on-site consultations occurred with PBSS schools, along with periodic conference calls, e-mail consultations, and off-site meetings.

Many of the evaluation tools and articulation processes outlined in this chapter were developed or refined during the SIG. Annual evaluation reports were submitted to OSEP, and the final PBSS report documented successes in the areas of strategic planning and organizational development, staff interactions and school climate, behavior management and school