Department of Health and Human Services, SAMHSA, 2010). Two of these programs (Boys Town, Skillstreaming) have a substantial degree of research evidence in refereed journals and high levels of implementation nationwide. All of these programs have been implemented extensively in schools and classrooms nationwide.

These eight published programs can be organized along a continuum that ranges from a social-emotional learning focus to a behavioral, social skills instruction focus (see Figure 5.1). Below, the eight programs are briefly reviewed along this social-emotional learning to behavioral skills instruction continuum.

**Figure 5.1** Evidence-Based Social, Emotional, and Behavioral Programs

- Lion’s Quest
- Positive Action
- Second Step
- Providing Alternative Thinking Strategies
- Life Skills Training
- Boys Town
- Skillstreaming
- Stop & Think Social Skills Program

*Social-emotional competency*  
↑  
↓  
*Behavioral skills instruction*

Source: Project ACHIEVE Press. Dr. Howie Knoff (author).

**Lion’s Quest** (published by Lions Clubs International Foundation; website: [www.lions-quest.org](http://www.lions-quest.org)). This Kindergarten through Grade 12 curriculum is divided into three levels: K to Grade 5, Grades 6 to 8, and Grades 9 to 12. The K through Grade 5 curriculum focuses on character education, social and emotional learning, and service learning using six topics and 24 skill-building lessons. The Grade 6 to 8 program focuses on character development, communication and decision-making skills, and service learning, guiding young people toward healthy choices and drug- and violence-free lifestyles. This curriculum contains eight topical units and 102 skill-building lessons. The Grade 9 to 12 level focuses on cultural awareness, interpersonal communication, personal management and responsibility, and study and writing skills through more than 100 life skills lesson plans organized in four-year, one-semester, or nine-week program options.