high school level) to take the lead in preventing and responding to TTBHHPA such that students are holding their peers accountable for prosocial interactions.
* Involve (as appropriate) representatives from different peer groups in special situation analyses when incident levels of TTBHHPA are increasing or to help debrief TTBHHPA situations that are significant or pervasive.
* Maintain and sustain a week-to-week and month-to-month school-wide focus on evaluating, communicating, and celebrating student group successes in this area and systematically transferring those successes from year to year to build a strong prosocial and anti-TTBHHPA culture.

## Student-Specific Special Situations—Problem Solving. A number of TTBHHPA situations might trigger the need for the special situations problem-solving process. These include situations that involve frequent, long-standing, or particularly intense levels of TTBHHPA where one or more students are victimized by individual or groups of students who are (a) supported or reinforced by specific or large groups of peers or bystanders; (b) avoided, ignored, or allowed by staff to commit these acts; or (c) supported or reinforced by parents or other adults outside of the school. As noted in Chapter 6, Special Situation Analyses typically involve all or part of the school discipline/PBSS committee, and they evaluate the who, what, when, where, why, and how conditions that exist, predict, and result when TTBHHPA does and does not occur. This entire problem-solving process is completed by identifying the individuals responsible for the TTBHHPA, analyzing these dynamics and underlying reasons for these acts across the six special situation domains, and then linking the results to strategic or intensive interventions that individually and systemically resolve the problem immediately and into the future. If the TTBHHPA occurs most often in a common school area, the Special Situation Analysis and intervention process combines both setting- and student-specific elements.

As noted earlier, there is considerable overlap between the setting-specific and student-specific special situation analyses for four of the five domains discussed in Chapter 6 (i.e., the teacher and staff, environmental, incentive and consequence, and resource and resource utilization domains).