skills as well as the processes and activities that support the other instructional, staff, and service components (see above) of an effective school. Part of this process involves collecting formative and summative data to validate the impact of a school’s strategic planning and school improvement efforts; its professional development and capacity-building efforts; its selection, preparation, and implementation of academic and behavioral curricula and instruction; and its problem-solving, consultation, and multi-tiered RTI^2 services and supports for students not making appropriate academic or behavioral progress.

Another part of this process involves evaluating the interpersonal and interprofessional success of a school’s shared leadership and committee and team processes as well as the contributions of administrative, related services, and instructional support personnel to system, staff, and student success. Relative to interpersonal and interprofessional relationships, evaluations should consider staff to staff, staff to parent and community, staff to student, and student to student interactions. All of these interactions collectively contribute to the climate and functioning of a school.

**Summary.** Beyond the research that correlates students’ social, emotional, and behavioral status with their academic achievement, the interdependent relationship between classroom behavior and academic success is demonstrated through two essential questions. “Are there students in our classrooms who behaviorally act out or emotionally ‘check out’ because of academic frustration?” and “Are there students in our classrooms who do not academically succeed (or succeed as well as they might) because of social, emotional, or behavioral skill or motivational issues?” Knowing that the answers to these two questions are “Yes,” this again reinforces the fact that curriculum, instruction, and academic achievement in any classroom is interdependent with discipline, behavior management, and student self-management. Moreover, the social, emotional, and behavioral factors are often prerequisite to the learning and achievement. Indeed, if students cannot sit in their seats, academic engagement decreases. If they cannot work independently, academic mastery may be reduced. If they cannot work, socially and behaviorally, in cooperative learning situations, their ability to apply and synthesize information may be hindered.

As an essential component of an effective school, a schoolwide PBSS is critical to students’ academic and social, emotional, and behavioral