Students need to be motivated to learn new skills and, thereafter, to demonstrate these skills after mastering them. Some students need to be motivated to replace inappropriate with appropriate behavior. The foundations to motivation are incentives and consequences. Incentives are positive or reinforcing responses or experiences (e.g., positive statements or feedback, points or rewards, extra time or fun activities) that students value, want, or enjoy. Consequences are negative or aversive responses or experiences (e.g., negative feedback or calls home, the loss of points or opportunities to earn rewards, loss of free time or community service) that students do not want or enjoy and that they try to avoid. Incentives and consequences can be tangible, time or activity oriented, or provided (or lost) in a form (e.g., points or chips) that can be exchanged for something else. They can be (a) delivered verbally, nonverbally, or socially; (b) provided immediately or through different reinforcement schedules; or (c) given on an individual or group basis. They also can be extrinsic—coming from another person or from the environment—or intrinsic—coming from the student him- or herself.

When students have not learned and mastered specific skills, they are said to have a skill deficit in that area. The only intervention for skill deficit students is instruction. The question is, “Where, when, how, how often, at what level of intensity, and who will do the needed skill instruction with the student(s)?” Students who have mastered specific skills, but choose not to demonstrate them, are called performance deficit students. While the specific reasons for their refusal should be determined through a functional assessment process, any intervention for these students must include one or more motivational and/or accountability strategies.

Incentives best motivate performance deficit students to decrease and eliminate their inappropriate behavior and to establish or increase their appropriate behavior. At the same time, some performance deficit students are motivated to change their behavior only due to the consequences that may occur or that they have experienced in the past and want to avoid in the future. When used and effective, consequences do two things: they communicate that the student has behaved inappropriately, and they motivate the student to discontinue future inappropriate behavior and replace it with appropriate behavior. However, consequences do not change behavior by themselves; they create the conditions for change.