* The chair and others summarize the meeting’s decisions, accomplishments, and assignments.
* The quality of interprofessional and interpersonal processes that occurred during the meeting are discussed, and relevant feedback is shared.

## Committee Membership Within Grade Levels and Rotating Committee Members Across Grade Levels.

In order to maintain a shared leadership approach across a school’s committees, it is important that every instructional staff member be on at least one school-level committee. Beyond this, it is recommended that, to the greatest degree possible, different teachers on the same grade or instructional team also should be distributed across a school’s different committees. For example, if a school’s third grade team has four teachers, one teacher should be on the curriculum and instruction, school discipline/PBSS, professional development/teacher support and mentoring, and parent involvement/community outreach committees, respectively (remember that the SPRINT team is a more specialized committee). At the secondary level, where there are more teachers at different instructional levels, a logical and representative distribution of teachers into the respective committees is needed.

Once assigned to a committee, it is recommended that the teachers serve three-year terms (that may be renewed once) and that the committee terms be staggered so that only one-third of a committee’s membership rotates off a committee in any one year. For example, within an elementary school’s school discipline/PBSS committee, the kindergarten and third grade teachers, the first and fourth grade teachers, and the second and fifth grade teachers, respectively, would serve the committee in the same cohort. Thus, at the end of any year, only one of the three cohorts would be scheduled to rotate off the committee and be replaced by teachers at the same grade levels. This rotational approach maintains the history, continuity, integrity, and momentum of the committees and ensures that they have appropriate teacher representation, energy, and new perspectives over time. Parenthetically, if a brand-new committee were being formed at any point in time, the easiest way to set up this staggered rotational system would be, for example, to give the kindergarten and third grade representatives an initial