4. For preschool through early elementary school students, mastered skills still need to be explicitly and externally prompted in order to be demonstrated. Middle elementary school students and beyond can self-prompt and independently demonstrate most mastered skills, but they still may need explicit and external prompts when under conditions of emotionality.

When preschool through early elementary school students have mastered specific social, emotional, and behavioral skills, adults still typically need to prompt or cue these skills before they will occur. That is, while the students have mastered these skills, they are not yet able to self-manage them. This is like having a software program already downloaded onto a computer but still needing to physically mouse-click it to activate it. Thus, after an adult prompt, these students demonstrate their skill mastery by responding to the social, emotional, or behavioral prompt within a reasonable amount of time and for longer and longer periods of time without the need for additional prompting.

When middle elementary school students (and beyond) have mastered specific social, emotional, and behavioral skills, they more independently recognize social, situational, or setting-specific cues; they self-prompt, guide, and demonstrate specific, needed skills; and they monitor, evaluate, and reinforce themselves for appropriate behavior or successful results. This is like having a virus protection program running continually on a computer so that when a virus tries to attack, the software automatically responds and disarms the threat.

Under conditions of emotionality, however, older elementary through middle school students (and beyond) still may need an adult to prompt a previously learned skill. This is because students at these age levels have not mastered emotional control skills at a level of automaticity and still need external support in these self-management areas.

5. Even when social, emotional, or behavioral skills have been mastered, students still need to be motivated to use these skills, and they need to be held accountable for their behavior. Ultimately, self-accountability is the highest level of social competency and self-management.