After completing its work, the task force should give way to the staff who teach the health, mental health, and wellness units that have been established. These staff should meet periodically to oversee the implementation of the program, evaluating its effectiveness and outcomes at staff, student, and community levels.

# SUMMARY

In order to effectively teach social, emotional, and behavioral self-management skills, it is necessary to teach the cognitive-behavioral skills and scripts using a teach-model-role-play-performance-feedback-transfer of training format that is embedded in a progressive teach-apply-infuse process. The initial goal is to provide enough positive practice opportunities so that students learn targeted skills and scripts. The broader goal is to transfer the training, providing students with additional application and infusion opportunities such that they learn to independently use their skills in different situations and settings with different people and personalities and under different conditions of emotionality. When done with high levels of consistency, this facilitates both skill mastery and skill transfer. When the consistency extends across students, staff, settings, situations, and circumstances, a schoolwide impact can be seen.

This chapter focuses on evidence-based ways to teach students skills that facilitate social, emotional, and behavioral self-management. Emphasizing cognitive-behavioral instruction, mastery, application, and automaticity through the seven scientific criteria of an effective skills program, eight specific programs were reviewed with a recommendation that programs be chosen at the district, rather than individual school, level. The Stop & Think Social Skills Program is used to exemplify the functional implementation of the seven criteria and to demonstrate the impact of a skills program on students’ interpersonal, social problem-solving, conflict prevention and intervention, and emotional coping skills and interactions. Chapter 7 extends this conversation, showing how to apply the social skills process to address the skill deficits or needs of students involved in teasing, taunting, bullying, harassment, hazing, and physical aggression.