# SUMMARY  

Processes that evaluate short- and long-term PBSS outcomes and activities that scale up and sustain its success—at the system, school, staff, and student levels—never end. This chapter discussed a selected number of instruments, tools, and approaches that help to evaluate the success of a PBSS initiative across its primary goals and objectives. These tools included the Scale of Staff Interactions and School Cohesion, the Scale of Effective School Discipline and Safety, the Automated Discipline Data, Review, and Evaluation Software System (ADDRESS), the Effective Classroom Management Classroom Walk-Through (CWT), and the Behavioral Intervention Survey.  

The chapter also addressed a number of systematic ways to transfer, or articulate, PBSS successes from year to year, so that every school year begins, on the first day of school, at the highest level of effectiveness and efficiency. More specifically, articulation activities were described in the following areas: school discipline/PBSS committee membership and strategic planning, the Get-Go process, the development of Student Briefing Reports, year-end special situation analyses, and resource needs assessments and planning.  

In the end, like businesses, schools are usually successful on the strength of their strategic planning and effective execution of sound policies, procedures, and implementation activities—not because of good luck. Evaluation and articulation activities are essential to help schools, committees, and staff members evaluate the accomplishments of the past year, to plan for smooth transitions into the next school year, and to maintain and extend the momentum of the school’s academic and behavioral successes. While every school committee engages in articulation processes to some degree, those completed annually by the school discipline/PBSS committee refocus the school’s attention on its PBSS goals and outcomes and on the social, emotional, and behavioral self-management progress and proficiency of all students. Attending to evaluation and articulation processes is good business. Ultimately, good business in schools translates into staff effectiveness and productivity, and short- and long-term student success.