perspective, students’ positive feelings, thoughts, beliefs, and attributions represent the cognitive goals and outcomes of a PBSS. Students’ positive interpersonal, social problem-solving, conflict prevention and resolution, and social-emotional coping skills—both in their classrooms and in the common areas of a school—represent the behavioral goals and outcomes of a PBSS.

More specifically, on a social level, skills that are important to self-management include those that contribute to effective (a) listening, engagement, and responding; (b) communication and collaboration; (c) social problem-solving and group process; and (d) conflict prevention and resolution. On an emotional level, important self-management skills include (a) the awareness of one’s own and others’ feelings, (b) the ability to manage or control those feelings and other emotions as well as the ability to use coping skills to minimize the emotional effects of previous situations, and (c) the ability to demonstrate appropriate behavior even under conditions of emotionality. Finally, on a behavioral level, important self-management skills include those that help students to demonstrate appropriate behavior in the classroom and across the common areas of the school and to be actively engaged in their own learning—whether in the classroom or on a more independent level.

## HOW A PBSS FITS INTO AN EFFECTIVE SCHOOL

If the ultimate PBSS goal is to help students learn, master, and apply social, emotional, and behavioral self-management skills, then this instructional goal needs to be integrated into a school’s mission, role, and function. One way to begin this integration is to understand that a school’s ultimate academic goal is to help students become independent learners, while its ultimate behavioral goal is to teach students to become self-managers. In order to accomplish these outcomes, schools need to dedicate themselves to effective school and schooling practices. To this end, the components of an effective school are described below.

**The Components of an Effective School.** During the past 30 years, a number of evidence-based effective school models have been developed by