academic or social, emotional, or behavioral curricula—either at the class or the individual student levels. When curricular factors directly impact a student’s challenging behavior, there are five high-hit areas or reasons to explore and analyze (see Figure 8.3): (a) the curricula are not aligned with or do not address desired or needed academic or social, emotional, or behavioral outcomes (reasons of alignment); (b) they do not use scientifically, pedagogically, or developmentally sound instructional approaches (reasons of pedagogy); (c) they are not engaging, relevant, motivating, or organized with the learner in mind (learner-centered reasons); (d) the materials and embedded instructional approaches are not organized and consistent (reasons of inconsistency); and (e) the materials and embedded instructional approaches are not easily modified to address different students’ needs and learning approaches (reasons of adaptability). Below are some specific examples or hypotheses in these high-hit areas.

* Alignment of the Curriculum With Stated Outcomes. At times, a social, emotional, or behavioral curriculum is not aligned with the desired external or internal goals or outcomes. For example, if a district or school (externally) wants to improve students’ prosocial behavior (e.g., teaching them to appropriately ask for help, respond to teasing, discuss and resolve conflicts) and it chooses a curriculum that focuses on emotions and feelings, it is likely that the student outcomes will not be accomplished. Similarly, if a curriculum’s marketing materials state that it is designed to improve students’ prosocial behavior and the curriculum (internally) focuses only on emotions and feelings, once again, it is unlikely that the student outcomes will be accomplished.

* All or Critical Parts of the Curriculum Are Not Sound. Social, emotional, or behavioral curricula need to conform to the documented and proven developmental and cognitive-behavioral principles that facilitate student success in these areas. For example, social skills curricula need to be designed to match the cognitive-developmental and maturational status and capabilities of the students being taught (e.g., providing separate early elementary, late elementary, and middle school versions). Moreover, when a social skills program does not use social learning theory to guide its skill instruction (i.e., using a teach, model, role-play, performance feedback, and transfer of training methodology), this often undermines student outcomes.