levels of Quadrant III; and (c) research-based and other more common-sense behaviors that are needed for classroom success. The expected behaviors in the different common areas of the school are based on functional analyses of the logistical routines and interpersonal interactions needed for success. For example, expectations should be developed for the three logistical phases that contribute to effective hallway behavior (a) exiting the classroom and entering the hallway, (b) passing down the hallways and navigating any staircases, and (c) walking directly to the next scheduled class or setting (unless a locker stop is needed) and entering that room. In the cafeteria, behavioral expectations should be developed for each of the five logistical phases in that setting: (a) entering the cafeteria and lining up in the food line, (b) entering the serving area and receiving your food, (c) exiting the serving area and sitting at a table to eat your food, (d) finishing your food and cleaning up, and (e) exiting the cafeteria.

The positive responses, incentives, and rewards specified in Quadrant II are best generated by observing and interviewing the students at the respective grade levels of the different behavioral matrices. Clearly, this will increase the probability that the incentives will be meaningful and powerful to the targeted students, and that they will be valued by the peer group as a whole. Beyond this, there are many lists of developmentally arranged incentives and rewards available online by searching the appropriate terms on the internet.

Relative to Quadrant III, the four intensities define different levels of inappropriate student behavior:

- Intensity I (Annoying) Behavior: Behaviors in the classroom that are annoying or that mildly interrupt classroom instruction or student attention and engagement. Teachers can handle these behaviors with a minimum of interaction by using a corrective response (e.g., a nonverbal prompt or cue, physical proximity, a social skills prompt, reinforcing nearby students’ appropriate behavior).
- Intensity II (Disruptive or Interfering) Behavior: Behavior problems in the classroom that occur more frequently, for longer periods of time, or to the degree that they disrupt classroom instruction or interfere with student attention and engagement. Teachers handle these behaviors with a corrective response and, usually, a classroom-based consequence (e.g., loss of student points or privileges, a classroom