From an evaluation perspective, a pre-post-post approach is typically the best way to use the SSISC. For example, the SSISC can be administered to a school’s staff in early May as a pre-intervention assessment either (a) to help determine areas of concern relative to staff interactions or school cohesion, so that these can be analyzed over the summer and addressed at the beginning of the new school year; or (b) to measure the current status of the school in these areas, so that the impact of a schoolwide PBSS implemented during the next school year can be formally evaluated (pretest or baseline administration Year 1). After the implementation of needed interventions or a schoolwide PBSS during the next school year, the SSISC could be administered again as a posttest in either December or May (intervention implementation posttest Year 1), and the results would be compared and contrasted with the pretest or baseline assessment completed the May before. Finally, the SSISC could be administered in December or May of the next school year (intervention implementation post-test Year 2) and, again, compared and contrasted with the first two administrations to track continued improvement or to identify continuing areas of concern.

Whenever the SSISC is administered, feedback typically is provided using three formats: (a) summary scores and a discussion of the three SSISC factors; (b) individual item scores and a discussion of specific SSISC items that reflect school strengths and other items that reflect areas in need of further analysis, staff attention, or school improvement; and (c) a combination of (a) and (b) above. Strategically, SSISC feedback is given in a way that best facilitates the staff members’ understanding of the results and the planning and intervention processes that may need to follow. This feedback might occur initially with the school’s leadership team, then in small grade- or instruction-level teams, then followed up by a broader discussion at a faculty meeting. Or the feedback might occur initially at a faculty meeting, allowing the staff to then decide what needs to be done (if anything) to further validate the results, to address the concerns, and to sustain the strengths.

Regardless of the meeting format or discussion and planning sequence, a written report of the SSISC results often is helpful. This report could be distributed prior to any of the planned meetings as an advanced organizer or after the meetings as a summary of the results presented. It also is important to decide who will present the results and how the school’s strengths and weaknesses will be reported. Clearly, there are a number of strategic