1. Identify the behavioral goal or target specifically (i.e., the appropriate behavior to demonstrate or the inappropriate behavior to stop or eliminate).
2. Validate that the student has mastered the target behavior in multiple settings and under multiple conditions (if mastery has not occurred, instruction is needed).
3. Discuss and identify with the student a range of possible meaningful and powerful tangible (actual or symbolic or exchangeable) and intangible, extrinsic and intrinsic reinforcers.
4. Choose the reinforcer to be received for the target behavior, determine the reinforcement schedule, and specify how the reinforcer will be delivered.
5. Role-play to mastery the behavior and reinforcement process (student/teacher).
6. Develop a monitoring and evaluation protocol.
7. Transfer the training, implement, and apply.
8. Evaluate, thin, and move to self-management.

Ultimately, the keys to using positive reinforcement at the Tier 2 level include the following: (a) ensure that the student has the ability to perform the expected behavior; (b) teach and practice the intervention with the student; (c) set up the reinforcement contingencies at the beginning so that the student has almost a 100% chance of success; (d) pair any extrinsic reinforcement with social, intrinsic, and self-reinforcement over time; (e) thin the reinforcement schedule as the student consistently demonstrates the expected behavior and earns the reinforcement over time, so that more behavior is expected for less reinforcement; and (f) move the intervention from reinforcement to self-management.

A token economy is a specific positive reinforcement approach where students earn points, checkmarks, or tokens for demonstrating a wide range of appropriate classroom behaviors—using the points at different times to purchase backup reinforcers. When this method is used comprehensively, students earn points throughout the day for virtually every classroom and school activity. When it is used more selectively, specific behaviors are targeted to receive a certain number of points each day.

As discussed above, the goal of this approach is to initially shape and establish the target behaviors, and then to change the reinforcement