# INTRODUCTION

It is a simple fact that how students feel about themselves, behave, and get along with others strongly predicts their interactions and even their achievement in school. Indeed, if students feel pressured, bullied, or unsafe, they focus more on these emotional conditions than on academic instruction and learning. If they are unsure of themselves, lack self-confidence, or are self-conscious, they may not believe that they can succeed. If they do not have the behavioral skills to pay attention, work independently, or organize themselves, their academic work may suffer. If they cannot relate to others, work cooperatively in a group, and prevent or resolve conflicts, they will not survive socially.

We have known that students’ social, emotional, and behavioral competency and self-management is essential to their academic and interpersonal success in school for decades (Cawalti, 1995; Wang, Haertel, & Walberg, 1993/1994; Ysseldyke & Christenson, 1993). While a strong academic program with effective instruction and a focus on real-world knowledge and skills is essential to student achievement and understanding, it is evident that a positive and supportive school and classroom climate with positive and productive student and teacher interactions and effective classroom management is necessary. Indeed, these components are among the top six predictors of students’ academic achievement (Goodman & Schaugency, 2001; McNeely, Nonemaker, & Blum, 2002; Zins, Weissberg, Wang, & Walberg, 2004). More specifically, reviews of over 200 studies of school-based programs (Durlak, Weissberg, Dymnicki, Taylor, & Schellinger, 2011; Payton et al., 2008) revealed that classroom time spent on addressing the social, emotional, and behavioral skills and needs of students helped to significantly increase their academic performance and their social and emotional skills, and that the students involved were better behaved, more socially successful, less anxious, and more emotionally well-adjusted and earned higher grades and test scores.

This book discusses how schoolwide PBSSs are essential to helping students learn, master, and apply the skills needed for social, emotional, and behavioral competency and self-management and how PBSS activities facilitate the positive climates, prosocial interactions, and effective management approaches noted above across all classroom and school settings. Given this focus, this book is largely for district and school