academics for many years now has been extended to include behavioral accountability.

Beyond this, from a school perspective, all students are accountable for their behavior as represented in the Behavioral Matrix. However, when students engage in Intensity III and IV behaviors, functional assessments and strategic or intensive interventions often become necessary, along with a Behavioral Intervention Plan (BIP) or, if the student qualifies, a 504 or Individualized Education Plan (IEP). Relative to the latter group of students, it must be emphasized that the long-term expectations and standards for student behavior and accountability do not change, even though the short-term expectations for these individual students may be modified. That is, if a student is unable to meet some of the expectations on the Behavioral Matrix due, for example, to a significant skill deficit, disability, or life circumstance, more realistic behavioral goals and expectations are set, and the instructional or intervention services or supports to help the student attain these goals are identified, implemented, and evaluated. However, as these services and supports are successful and as the student makes sufficient progress, the expectations should be accelerated and retargeted such that they progressively become closer and closer to those on the student’s grade-level Behavioral Matrix.

This process explicitly addresses an often-stated concern that some (especially challenging) students are not held accountable to the same social, emotional, or behavioral standards as others, and that this undermines the accountability system in the eyes of those other students. Once again, even though specific students may be unable to meet certain behavioral expectations, the expectations still are maintained as an ultimate goal. The challenge is to determine how to implement the intervention programs that help these students to progress such that they can eventually be held fully accountable to all standards. By way of analogy, not every student earns an “A” in every class or meets all of the state’s academic standards or benchmark proficiencies. While we want them to, even with intensive instruction and intervention, it does not happen for all students. And yet, by maintaining challenging goals and expectations, most students outperform those whose goals and expectations are significantly modified or minimized.

The point here is that schools and staff need to have high and realistic academic and social, emotional, and behavioral standards and expectations