When students exhibit ongoing, persistent, or intensive social, emotional, or behavioral challenges in a classroom or school, and they resist or do not respond to effective classroom instruction and preventative Positive Behavioral Support System (PBSS) approaches (see Chapters 1, 4, and 5), the reasons underlying the challenges must be determined so that strategic or intensive instructional or intervention services, supports, strategies, or programs can be successfully implemented. In order to accomplish this, a data-based, functional assessment problem-solving process needs to be embedded in the multi-tiered system of instructional and intervention approaches that range in intensity and focus. The problem-solving process must ecologically assess the different factors in a classroom, school, district, home, or community, and how they are causing or contributing to the challenging situation. In addition, the process needs to evaluate students’ responses to the prevention, strategic, or intensive instructional or intervention approaches implemented to determine their success.

This chapter discusses challenging student behavior in the context of a multi-tiered Response-to-Instruction and Intervention (RTI²) process that guides Project ACHIEVE’s School Prevention, Review, and Intervention Team (SPRINT) process. After defining RTI², the data-based, functional assessment problem-solving process is outlined along with its most essential problem identification and problem analysis procedures. Seven high-hit reasons why students do not develop or demonstrate needed social competency and self-management skills and behaviors then are described. The chapter concludes by setting the stage for Chapter 9 where functional assessment results are linked with specific services, supports, strategies, or programs.

# DESCRIBING RTI²

While practiced for decades within the health and mental health communities, the importance of evaluating students’ responsiveness to scientifically based intervention was legislatively introduced to education as part of the 2004 reauthorization of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA). Initially focused on services to students with possible learning disabilities, this process has been increasingly applied to