needed to embed essential elements of the matrix process into the school’s website and into the school’s student-parent handbook and other brochures and documents. It is emphasized again that the school principal approves all of these decisions and actions. Moreover, some of these decisions may need to be authorized at the district or school board levels. Thus, the need for careful planning, scheduling, and sequencing is important, especially as the school gets closer to rolling out the behavioral matrix and accountability process.

## Phase 5: With the Entire School Faculty

In Phase 5, the faculty approves the entire Behavioral Matrix document at a formal meeting, and then discusses and organizes the rollout process. Typically, the approval part of the meeting proceeds without controversy as there have been plenty of opportunities to identify and resolve disagreements at the school, grade, and individual staff levels. In most cases, the matrix document is approved by consensus. The most critical message here is the expectation that everyone in the school will consistently support, implement, and evaluate the behavioral matrix and accountability process. Relative to the latter, staff members should understand that the impact of this process will be evaluated on an ongoing monthly basis by the school discipline/PBSS committee, and that there will be periodic opportunities (after the first three months when the matrix is first implemented and biannually thereafter) for the grade-level teams to revisit the distribution of items within their Behavioral Matrix and to debrief behavioral situations that inadvertently were not covered by or anticipated within the matrix.

Specific to the rollout process, a number of decisions must be made relative to when, who, how, and where the matrices will be introduced to the students and when and how the initial impact of the matrix and accountability process will be evaluated. Typically, the matrix rollout occurs after a natural break in the school calendar—for example, immediately after a lengthy vacation or at the beginning of a new marking period or semester.

The initial rollout should be a significant event. Often, it involves class or whole-school assemblies, special programs with guest speakers and student involvement, large and small group student discussions, and training opportunities so that students learn the matrix and its elements. The