# Preface and Acknowledgments

The bell rings. It is 10:20 a.m. and a thousand middle school adolescents of all sizes and shapes pour into the hallway for the five minutes of chaos that goes with their transition from one classroom to the next. Ignoring the expressionless faces of the staff members supervising this school ritual, the students are in their own worlds and on their own terms—generating a cacophony of mindless chatter, good-natured ribbing, deliberate ridicule, and ego-shattering disdain.

During the five-minute frenzy, some students are celebrated and idolized; some are accepted and supported; some are ignored or rejected; and some are bullied, harassed, and intimidated. As in generations past, there are the emerging (when they get to high school) class superstars and supermodels, the cool kids, the preps, the brains, the jocks, the valley girls, the thespians, the geeks, the nerds, the losers, the Goths, the punks, the greasers, the burnouts, and, of course, just the average students fighting to fit in.

While some may say that the culture of a middle school (or elementary or high school) is a microcosm of a community and our society (and maybe it is), this should not make us passive and fatalistic. And it should not discourage us from taking the actions needed to improve the culture of our schools, communities, and society by helping everyone to learn and demonstrate the interpersonal, social problem-solving, conflict prevention and resolution, and emotional coping skills that they need to be successful—now and in the future.

At its core, this book is more about helping students to learn and use necessary social, emotional, and behavioral self-management skills than about minimizing student discipline problems. It is more about staff members enthusiastically infusing these skills into the fabric of their classrooms and instruction than about staff members trying to manage,