Social Skills and Steps: Classroom and building routines and scripts
from preschool to high school. Little Rock, AR: Project ACHIEVE
Press.

Knoff, H. M. (2007f). The scale of effective school discipline and safety.
Little Rock, AR: Project ACHIEVE Press.

Knoff, H. M. (2007g). The scale of staff interactions and school cohesion.
Little Rock, AR: Project ACHIEVE Press.

Knoff, H. M. (2007h). Teasing, taunting, bullying, harassment, and
aggression: A school-wide approach to prevention, strategic
intervention, and crisis management. In M. J. Elias, J. E. Zins, & C. A.
Maher (Eds.), Handbook of prevention and intervention in peer
harassment, victimization, and bullying. Binghamton, NY: Haworth
Press.

Knoff, H. M. (2009a). Implementing effective schoolwide student discipline
and behavior management systems: Increasing academic engagement
and achievement, decreasing teasing and bullying, and keeping your
school and common areas safe. Little Rock, AR: Project ACHIEVE
Press.

Knoff, H. M. (2009b). Implementing Response-to-Intervention at the
school, district, and state levels: Functional assessment, data-based
problem solving, and evidence-based academic and behavioral
interventions. Little Rock, AR: Project ACHIEVE Press.

Knoff, H. M. (2010a). End-of-year transition activities that sustain the RtI²
process. In H. M. Knoff & C. Dyer, RtI²—Response to Instruction and
Intervention: Implementing successful academic and behavioral
intervention systems (pp. 315–335). Rexford, NY: International Center
for Leadership in Education.

Knoff, H. M. (2010b). The RtI² data-based, functional assessment, problem-
solving process. In H. M. Knoff & C. Dyer, RtI²—Response to
Instruction and Intervention: Implementing successful academic and
behavioral intervention systems (pp. 51–114). Rexford, NY:
International Center for Leadership in Education.

Knoff, H. M. (2010c). Social, emotional, and behavioral interventions. In
H.M. Knoff & C. Dyer, RTI²—Response to Instruction and