implementation of the Stop & Think Social Skills Program, the enhancement of the school’s accountability system of incentives and consequences, and the reinforcement of staff consistency relative to student and other personal and professional interactions. Unfortunately, Hurricane Katrina devastated St. Bernard Parish and its school system in September of 2009. NOVA was closed for a number of years after the Hurricane Katrina disaster.

While discipline referrals to the director decreased and attendance increased significantly during Project ACHIEVE’s involvement with the school, the results below focus on the staff members’ perceptions of NOVA’s improved discipline, behavior management, and school safety. This is especially important because alternative school staff must feel safe within their school and confident that the school can address the intervention and crisis management needs of their students in order for them to provide the full benefits of the school’s program to their students.

## Staff Perceptions of School Climate and Behavior Management

NOVA staff completed the 58-item Scale of Effective School Discipline and Safety (see Chapter 10) before Project ACHIEVE began its implementation and then again after most of the program had been implemented. Staff members rated each item along a five-point scale from 1—Excellent to 5—Poor. Results were gathered from the five factors of this scale:

- Staff members believed that teachers’ effective classroom management skills remained largely stable from pretest to posttest. Staff members’ ratings on this factor averaged 2.80 (on the 5-point scale) at pretest and 2.91 at posttest.
- Staff members believed that students’ positive interactions and respectful behavior significantly improved from pretest to posttest. Staff ratings on this factor averaged 3.93 (on the 5-point scale) at pretest and 1.75 at posttest.
- Staff members believed that the school’s administrators and staff members collectively improved their ability to hold students accountable for their behavior from pretest to posttest. Staff members’