Relative to analyzing the peer, school setting, and home conditions in the case example above and linking them to respective interventions, then, the student’s lack of or inability to demonstrate existing social skills is the primary cause of the student’s difficulties. While a comprehensive intervention plan would still move to eliminate the inappropriate peer reinforcement, the overcrowded common school areas, and any acrimony between the parents during and after the divorce, replacing them with positive peer interactions, safer and more organized common school areas, and parents who are consciously minimizing the emotional impact of the divorce on their son, the intervention plan also would include the cognitive-behavioral training or therapy needed to teach the student how to control his thoughts, emotions, physiological reactions, and behavioral responses to these challenging conditions. Once again, while a change in the triggering conditions might help the student in the short term, successful cognitive and emotional control training will have a broader and more generalized effect in the long term.

## High-Hit Instructional Environment Hypotheses.

While teachers and consultants should investigate possible hypotheses in all six of the problem analysis domains above, the remainder of this section focuses on the most typical high-hit hypotheses present within the Instructional Environment (see Figures 8.2, 8.3, and 8.4). While outlined separately, please recall the interdependent nature of these three domains, and the fact that many of the related questions in Table 8.1 are hypotheses that also need to be considered and tested.

The teacher or instructional characteristics and factors domain involves effective instructional and classroom management skills and strategies that maximize student learning, achievement, and self-management. Also involved here are the instructional remediations, accommodations, and modifications that effective teachers make to help all students to learn (see the PASS blueprint in Chapter 1).

At times, students are not learning, mastering, or demonstrating appropriate social, emotional, or behavioral skills in the classroom because of teacher or instructional factors. When this occurs, it is usually because the teacher does not know or is not demonstrating effective instructional interactions or because of ineffective instructional interactions. Both of these possibilities could involve interactions that are generalized across all