ratings on this factor averaged 3.18 (on the 5-point scale) at pretest and 2.72 at posttest.
- Staff members believed that their contributions to a positive school climate remained largely stable from pretest to posttest. Staff ratings on this factor averaged 2.62 (on the 5-point scale) at pretest and 2.83 at posttest.
- Staff members believed that school safety and security, relative to staff, students, and school grounds, got somewhat safer from pretest to posttest. Staff ratings on this factor averaged 2.81 (on the 5-point scale) at pretest and 2.56 at posttest.

## Staff Perceptions of Improvements in School Climate and Behavior Management

On the Scale of Effective School Discipline and Safety, NOVA staff rated certain items as significantly improved from pretest to posttest:
- It is safe to work in this school after students are dismissed.
- This school is a safe and secure place to work during the normal school day.
- Students are frequently rewarded or praised by faculty and staff members for following school rules.
- Administrators support teachers in dealing with student discipline matters.
- Students are taught the school rules.
- Administrators enforce the student rules consistently and equitably.
- Teachers have high and reasonable behavioral expectations of their students.
- Teachers at this school are
  - relaxed,
  - innovative,
  - open to change, and
  - optimistic.
- Teachers at this school willingly accept responsibility for every student in the building.
- Teachers at this school are willing to give the student peer group some responsibility for monitoring its own members.