implementation (Kerr & Nelson, 2010; Sprick & Garrison, 2008). These interventions may focus, for example, on the specific problems exhibited by a student (e.g., not completing homework, noncompliance, swearing, threatening others). Alternatively, they may focus on specific teacher behaviors, actions, or reactions that are triggering or inadvertently reinforcing inappropriate student behavior or are not prompting and reinforcing appropriate student behavior. More specifically, this may involve teachers who are not providing advanced organizers or appropriate behavioral feedback to one or more students, or teachers who are reinforcing inappropriate behavior through attention or inconsistent disciplinary practices.

To address the needs of non-responding, negatively responding, or inappropriately responding students, schools need staff members who have skills in behavioral observation, data collection and analysis, consultation, intervention, and evaluation. Relative to students with strategic and intensive needs, a multi-tiered instructional or intervention continuum that varies in intensity or needed specialization is outlined and described in Chapters 8 and 9 (see also Figures 1.5 through 1.7).

**Figure 1.5 Prevention Services for All Students**

- What is the problem?
- Why is it occurring?
- What are we going to do about it?
- Is it working?

- Positive school and classroom climates
- Effective classroom instruction
- Effective instructional grouping
- Effective classroom management
- Student instruction in zones of success
- Social skill instruction and use
- Well-designed and implemented accountability systems
- Consistency
- Student modifications & accommodations
- Early intervention

Source: Project ACHIEVE Press. Dr. Howie Knoff (author).

**Figure 1.6 Tier 2: Strategic Intervention Services for Some Students**