products of this component are school improvement plans that help schools build capacity and autonomy; identify, develop, and deploy resources; facilitate communication, collaboration, commitment, and innovation; and sustain student, staff, and system success.

2. The *problem solving, teaming, and consultation processes component* focuses on the consistent implementation of data-based, functional assessment, problem-solving approaches that all staff learn and use (a) when implementing effective academic and behavioral instruction in the classroom, and (b) when addressing students who either are not responding to this instruction or are exhibiting serious academic or behavioral concerns. For the latter students, a multi-tiered RTI^2 process is used (Knoff, 2009a; Knoff & Dyer, 2010) that integrates problem solving with consultation and intervention. Rejecting the more traditional RTI approach that advocates a universal intervention protocol, this RTI^2 process emphasizes the importance of linking the data-confirmed reasons why a student is not responding to effective instruction to strategic instructional or intervention approaches. These strategic approaches then are implemented by classroom teachers with consultative support (if needed) from other experts in the school. This RTI^2 process also recognizes that some students need adapted, differentiated, different, or more intensive instruction to address their needs, while other students need specific, focused, strategic or intensive interventions.

This component also extends problem solving and consultation beyond the classroom level, to grade-level RTI^2 teams (or instructional teams at the secondary level) and building-level RTI^2 teams, respectively. Project ACHIEVE utilizes grade-level RTI^2 team meetings to encourage collaborative data-based problem solving and collegial consultation among teachers at the same or adjacent grade levels. These meetings are especially effective when, for example, one teacher on a teaching team is not having success with a challenging student in a specific area, while another teacher on the same team knows exactly what to do—based on previous training or experience—and can provide consultation and support.

Figure 1.1 Organizational Model for Maximizing Student Achievement