Glew, G. M., Fan, M. Y., Katon, W., Rivara, F. P., & Kernic, M. A. (2005). Bullying, psychosocial adjustment, and academic performance in elementary school. *Archives of Pediatric Adolescent Medicine*, 159(11), 1026–1031.

Goldstein, A. (1988). *The prepare curriculum: Teaching prosocial competencies*. Champaign, IL: Research Press.

Goodman, S. D., & Schaughency, E. (2001, September/October). Schools address correlation between behavior and reading difficulties: Data driven decision making practices inform about what does and does not work. *CEN Newsline*. Michigan State Department of Education.

Hinduja, S., & Patchin, J. W. (2010). *Cyberbullying: Identification, prevention, and response*. Eau Claire, WI: University of Wisconsin–Eau Claire.

Hinduja, S., & Patchin, J. W. (2012, February). *Bullying and cyberbullying laws fact sheet* [web post]. Retrieved from http://www.cyberbullying.us/index.php

Huesmann, L. R., & Reynolds, M. A. (2001). Cognitive processes and the development of aggression. In A. C. Bohart & D. J. Stipek (Eds.), *Constructive and destructive behavior: Implications for family, school, and society* (pp. 249–269). Washington, DC: American Psychological Association.

January, A. M., Casey, R. J., & Paulson, D. (2011). A meta-analysis of classroom-wide interventions to build social skills: Do they work? *School Psychology Review*, 40, 242–256.

Johnson, D. W., & Johnson, R. T. (1996). Conflict resolution and peer mediation programs in elementary and secondary schools: A review of the research. *Review of Educational Research*, 66, 459–506.

Kazdin, A. E. (2001). *Behavior modification in applied settings* (6th ed.). New York, NY: Wadsworth.

Kerr, M. M., & Nelson, C. M. (2010). *Strategies for addressing behavior problems in the classroom* (6th ed.). Boston, MA: Pearson.

Kilian, J. M., Fish, M. C., & Maniago, E. B. (2006). Making schools safe: A system-wide school intervention to increase student prosocial behaviors