not use a social skills curriculum or require teachers to teach these skills (curriculum domain); (b) teachers are not teaching social skills effectively because they have never been appropriately trained (teacher or instructional domain); or (c) the students are not learning, mastering, or applying the social skills that are being taught (student domain). If these hypotheses are confirmed, then the intervention approaches that result should directly resolve the social skills problem. That is, the students of concern should begin demonstrating prosocial skills when the school acquires a social skills curriculum, trains and holds teachers accountable for its implementation, and ensures that students learn the different social skills to mastery, respectively.

Hypotheses in the latter three areas address factors that contribute to or correlate with student difficulties, but do not cause them. For example, a student may be demonstrating poor or nonexistent social skills because (a) the peer group is reinforcing his inappropriate behavior (classroom or peer domain); (b) he has difficulty in crowded common school areas where his teachers are not present (school or district domain); or (c) he is upset because his parents are getting a divorce (home or community domain). While intervening with the peer group and the crowding in the common school areas, respectively, may temporarily change the student’s behavior, the student still needs to learn and demonstrate appropriate behavior when other peer groups reinforce his inappropriate behavior in the future or when crowding occurs in other schools during other school years. Thus, the more permanent solution to this problem would be to teach and motivate the student to ignore or resist social pressure from the current and future peer groups and to transfer the social skills that he demonstrates in his classroom into any common school setting that has large numbers of students and no teacher supervision.

Relative to the divorce, the intervention is not to encourage the parents to reconcile but to teach the student how to emotionally cope with the divorce so that he is able to demonstrate his prosocial skills in different settings even when he is upset about his parents and current family situation. Thus, while the divorce is contributing to and triggering the student’s emotionality, the direct resolution of the problem (i.e., the emotionality that is impacting his social skill behavior) is to teach and motivate the student to learn and use emotional coping skills.