- are faced with a problem or situation but have not committed to, nor demonstrated, a prosocial skill, or
- must use the skill in situations that are somewhat different from those used when the skill was originally taught and practiced.

**Criterion 6.** The skills program is an integral part of an evidence-based positive behavioral support system (Dwyer et al., 1998; Kerr & Nelson, 2010; Knoff, 2000). As discussed in Chapters 1 and 2, the Stop & Think Social Skills Program is the anchor of Project ACHIEVE’s PBSS. When implemented effectively, three levels of self-management are accomplished: (a) students learn the self-management skills (at appropriate developmental levels) that they need for self-control and independent learning; (b) school staff learn the self-management skills that they need to run positive, effective, and well-organized classrooms; and (c) schools or districts organize and execute the self-management processes that help them to identify their resources, build their capacity, and sustain successful buildingwide systems of prevention, strategic intervention, and intensive need services for all students, especially those with behavioral or mental health concerns.

**Criterion 7.** The skills program teaches specific cognitive-behavioral skills in explicit and developmentally appropriate ways, and they can be adapted with students from different racial, cultural, language, and socioeconomic backgrounds, and with different social, emotional, and behavioral needs (Cartledge & Milburn, 1996). The Stop & Think Social Skills Program has been successfully implemented in rural, urban, and suburban schools, at preschool through high school levels across the country. It has been implemented in schools with diverse, multicultural and multinational groups of students, in a range of communities with students from significant levels of poverty to high levels of affluence and in schools where a majority of the students do not speak English as their primary language (the Stop & Think signs are printed in both English and Spanish). The program also has been used in many Native American reservation schools (e.g., Navajo, Shoshoni, Arapaho, Alaskan native) by incorporating each native culture’s teachings on positive social, emotional, and behavioral values and expectations and translating the Stop & Think steps and materials bilingually. These accomplishments have occurred because school