described and then linked to the interventions needed to address these situations in the future.

- **Chapter 8** (Functional Assessment and Why Students Become Behaviorally Challenging) describes the step-by-step data-based, functional assessment, problem-solving process that helps determine specifically why students are not demonstrating the social, emotional, or behavioral skills expected in different settings and situations. This is done in the context of looking at the classroom factors that might be contributing to a student’s difficulties and the seven high-hit reasons why students present with specific challenges.

- **Chapter 9** (Behavioral Interventions for Students With Strategic and Intensive Needs) links the results of the functional assessment approach from the previous chapter to specific instructional and intervention approaches that help to change student behavior. This is done in the context of a multi-tiered system that focuses on services, supports, strategies, and programs and not on the percentage of students served or where the services are delivered.

- **Chapter 10** (Evaluating and Sustaining PBSS Outcomes) describes a range of approaches that are used to formatively and summatively evaluate PBSS outcomes at the student, staff, school, and system levels. In addition, a number of articulation strategies are discussed that facilitate the transfer of successes and lessons learned from one school year (and, sometimes, school building) to the next.

Relative to acknowledgments, many people have supported me and the development of this book from beginning to end. While there is always a risk of forgetting someone when you write your thank-you notes (please accept my apologies in advance), I do want to recognize the people who had a direct hand in guiding this book.

First, I greatly appreciate the collegiality, feedback, recommendations, and read-throughs of this book by Jennifer Gonzales, Positive Behavioral Support System (PBSS) coordinator with the State Personnel Development Grant (SPDG) at the Arkansas Department of Education; our colleague Lisa Johnson, a PBSS consultant with the SPDG; and my good friend Matt