Self-Report (e.g., when an individual, including the student of concern, provides relevant information without prompting).

While all of these approaches have relative strengths and weaknesses, the ultimate goal is to collect the most reliable and valid data. Critically, this involves both the assessment approaches and the individuals who are selecting and conducting the assessments, and scoring and interpreting their data. For example, while many consider behavioral observations as the most direct, reliable, and valid of assessment approaches, they also could be least reliable and valid—especially, if the person conducting the assessment chooses (perhaps due to bias) the wrong target behaviors, observation approach (e.g., a momentary versus fixed-interval time sampling approach), comparison student, or time of the day or setting for the observation. Indeed, a behavioral observation could be just as biased or inaccurate as a bad interview.

Relatedly, some consider interviews and self-reports as two of the least objective and accurate assessment approaches available, unless a psychometrically valid structured interview is used. And yet, if the interview data and information are reliable and valid, they could be used to accept or reject an RTI² hypothesis.

A good assessment, then, begins with a good assessor. And the essence of a good assessor, ultimately, is someone who follows the primary psychometric principles of practice below.

* Assessment approaches should be selected to answer specific assessment questions, not to search for pathology where broad, undefined social, emotional, or behavioral areas are evaluated in the hope of uncovering a problem or a reason for an identified problem.
* When choosing assessment approaches to answer specific assessment questions, the most powerful, research-based approaches—that most directly answer the questions with the least amount of interpolation or interpretation—should be used.
* Assessments should involve the collection of enough data or information from enough people or sources across enough situations and settings such that their data are representative, relevant, and reliable. In saying this, overassessment must be avoided as it increases the potential of a Type 1 error, where conclusions that a problem exists