bring solutions into a system by just adding them on ignores the importance of interacting with schools and building them into more effective systems.

This book also emphasizes the importance of teaching students social, emotional, and behavioral self-management skills as the most effective and preventative approach to school discipline and improved academic performance. This involves teaching all students—from preschool to high school—the interpersonal, social problem-solving, conflict prevention and resolution, and emotional coping skills that they need to be successful both inside and outside of school.

So after almost 20 years of implementation, field-testing, and validation, Dr. Knoff provides us with a step-by-step guide to implementing schoolwide positive behavioral support systems—at the student prevention, strategic intervention, and intensive wrap-around and crisis management levels. Guided by both research and established practice, this book provides the educational community with a pragmatic, easy-to-follow, three-year blueprint for Positive Behavior Support Systems (PBSS) implementation that will help systems, schools, and staff to integrate academics, instruction, and achievement with discipline, behavior management, and student self-management. It also integrates this work into an effective strategic planning and continuous school improvement approach that focuses on building organizational and staff capacity, guiding professional development with strong implementation, and strengthening parent and community outreach.

While zero tolerance has been emphasized as an administrative approach to discipline for many years, educators are now realizing that we need to develop relationships with students that connect them to their schools, establish positive school and classroom climates, teach students social skills, motivate them to make good choices, keep our common areas safe, and eliminate instances of teasing, taunting, bullying, harassment, hazing, and physical aggression. This is what our schools need, this is what our children need, and this is what this book delivers—in a step-by-step, user-friendly fashion.

Nice work, Howie; you always amaze me.

Raymond J. McNulty
President
International Center for Leadership in Education

