good choices and exhibit prosocial behavior. These skills are also important so that students do not become dependent on adult or peer feedback. Ultimately, from a self-management perspective, students need to learn how to recognize when they are successful and how to reinforce themselves for a job well done.

Criterion 5. The skills program uses instructional processes based on social learning theory that include teaching, modeling, role-playing, and providing performance feedback (Bandura, 1977; Goldstein, 1988). The program also overtly plans and systematically transfers students’ skill use into different settings, with different people, at different times, and across different situations and circumstances—including those that involve conditions of emotionality (Stokes & Baer, 1977). The evidence-based behavioral and social learning teaching process used by the Stop & Think Social Skills Program involves five components:

- Teaching the steps of the desired social skill
- Modeling the steps and the social skills language (or script)
- Role-playing the steps and the script with students
- Providing performance feedback to students relative to how accurately they are verbalizing the skill script and how successfully they are behaviorally demonstrating the new skill
- Applying the skill and its steps as much as possible during the day to reinforce the teaching over time, in different settings, with different people, and in different situations

When teaching the steps of a desired social skill, teachers use the Stop & Think Program’s universal language. As noted earlier, when they get to the What are your Choices or Steps? step, students are taught the specific choices or steps for the skill they are focusing on.

When modeling a social skill, teachers verbalize the steps to a particular social skill while showing their students how to perform the associated behaviors. Typically, this is done by having teachers re-create an actual classroom or school situation where the particular social skill is needed. For example, in modeling the dealing with teasing social skill, a teacher would have a student tease the teacher in front of the class. The teacher then would talk through the script using the universal Stop & Think language with the