of the school, staff, and students, and the school’s outcomes over at least the last three years; (c) areas where they are not achieving desired PBSS-related outcomes (i.e., where there are negative, nonexistent, or slower-than-desired outcomes); and (d) the reasons for the school’s existing accomplishments and non-accomplishments. By integrating all of this information with the primary PBSS goals and outcomes discussed in Chapter 1, the staff members should agree upon a core set of realistic and meaningful PBSS goals that need to be accomplished and that will guide their planning and initial implementation process.

Schools that are evaluating an existing positive behavioral support initiative need to consider and analyze the same four areas above. Sometimes, schools with existing positive behavioral support programs struggle because (a) they have not targeted students’ social, emotional, and behavioral competency and self-management as their primary goal; (b) they have limited their focus to a single, deficit-related outcome (typically, decreasing office discipline referrals); and/or (c) they have not targeted important staff and school goals that contribute to student self-management outcomes. By considering the PBSS goals and objectives in Chapter 1 and the implementation elements and strategies throughout this book, schools using a different positive behavioral support model or approach may add essential components that result in deeper and more sustained outcomes and more comprehensive success.

Typically, the initial planning process that results in the identification of a school’s core PBSS goals and outcomes is coordinated by the SLT (see Chapter 3), often in collaboration with the district administrators who oversee the following areas: health, mental health, and wellness; discipline, behavior management, and services for students with social, emotional, or behavioral challenges; and school safety and security. As the process proceeds, the PBSS goals and outcomes and the action steps needed to accomplish them are written into the school’s annual school improvement plan, and the SLT actively facilitates their implementation. Eventually, most of these planning and execution processes are transferred to the school discipline/PBSS committee that also becomes responsible for recommending the school’s annual PBSS activities as the initiative progresses, expands, and succeeds.