administration and, if needed, the school board. If an external PBSS project director is used, he or she should agree to work with the school based on the match between his or her skills and expertise and the school’s need for and commitment to the chosen PBSS model. If needed, contracts or memoranda of agreement with the PBSS project director are written and signed with the school or district.

**Action 1.10: Initial Implementation Plan for Planning Meeting.** An initial plan for planning meeting with the SLT, the PBSS study team, selected others, and the new PBSS project director (if relevant) is held. During this one (or multiple) meeting(s), a PBSS implementation readiness action plan is written that outlines the steps, activities, timelines, people, and resources needed for the next phase of PBSS implementation. Included in these next steps are a more formal needs assessment and resource analysis; the selection and formation of a building-level school discipline/PBSS committee (see Chapter 3); a review of the school’s Response-to-Instruction and Intervention/School Prevention Review, and Intervention Team structure and process (see Chapter 3); the selection of a social skills program (see Chapter 5) and the development of a schoolwide behavioral accountability system through the Behavioral Matrix (see Chapter 4); and the execution of a number of critical end-of-year articulation or new-school-year preparation activities (see Chapter 10).

**Action 1.11: Formal Public Announcement and Kickoff.** The school administrator announces to the entire staff, as well as to the parents and community stakeholders and constituents, the final approval of the PBSS model and project director, and the tentative steps and timelines that will occur in the next phase of PBSS readiness.

**Action 1.12: Disbanding of the Study Team.** The study team is disbanded and thanked for its service to the school.

**Focus Area 2. PBSS Organizational Readiness and Planning**

Many of the next actions are guided by the new PBSS project director (if relevant), the SLT, any newly established committees (e.g., the school