communication process, as well as a top-down (i.e., from the administration on down) decision-making process.

While the SLT is the oversight committee to which all other committees report, there still is a clear delineation between the mandated and district-designated responsibilities of the school’s administration and the shared leadership responsibilities of the SLT. In the former area, the SLT may be advisory to the school’s administration, which still makes many final decisions. In the latter area, the SLT has many of its own decision-making responsibilities, as agreed upon by the administration.

The curriculum and instruction committee looks at the most effective ways to teach, infuse, progress monitor, and help all students to master and apply the information and skills in all of the academic areas within the school (and, if chosen, in other areas such as technology, music, art, physical education, health, etc.). Most critically, this committee especially guides the instruction and integration of the primary academic disciplines of literacy, mathematics, written and oral expression, and science throughout the school day and year. Meeting on at least a monthly basis with goals and outcomes connected to the school improvement plan (SIP), this committee also oversees the implementation and evaluation of new and existing district- and building-level curricula into the classroom such that they are taught in effective, differentiated ways to all students.

The membership of this committee includes representatives from every grade or instructional or teaching team or level, and it includes academic department chairs at the secondary level as well as instructional support, intervention, and special education representatives at both elementary and secondary levels. This committee is ideally chaired or co-chaired by a teacher or instructional support consultant, and school administrators are ex officio members (as they are for all school-level committees). At times, this committee may meet with other schools’ curriculum and instruction committees or with district-level supervisors or administrators. At the school level, the committee has multiple layers—extending from the school level down to the grade (or instructional team) level and down to individual teachers’ classrooms. Thus, this committee often is as differentiated as the curricula being taught across the school and, in large schools, it may have curriculum-specific subcommittees or use other organizational designs as needed, to facilitate the instruction and achievement of all students.