# THE FIVE SETTING-SPECIFIC COMMON SCHOOL DOMAINS: PREVENTION

The ultimate goal in this area is to have consistently safe and secure common school areas where students and staff interact in positive, prosocial, and proactive ways. In a preventative sense, this occurs when elements within the five special situation domains described below work interdependently in effective ways.

## Student Characteristics, Issues, and Factors.

Students demonstrate effective interpersonal, social problem-solving, conflict prevention and resolution, and emotional coping skills when the behavioral expectations for each common school area are explicit, specific, and consistent across all grade levels (see Chapter 4, which discusses the identification of these expectations within the context of the Behavioral Matrix). These skills then need to be behaviorally taught to mastery (just like a social skill; see Chapter 5) to all students at the very beginning of the school year, and they need to be infused and reinforced throughout the year by individual students, different peer groups, and staff.

At some point, these common school area skills become automatic for most students and, depending on their developmental maturation, they are prompted by their presence (e.g., “when I am in the bathroom, I need to …”), the task demands (e.g., “when I am done with my lunch, I need to …”), or the people (e.g., “when the whistle blows at the end of recess, I need to …”) in the respective settings. As they are demonstrated, appropriate skills and behaviors need to be positively acknowledged or reinforced (by the students themselves, the peer group, and the staff), and inappropriate skills and behaviors, in contrast, need to be corrected (or self-corrected). At times, depending on how serious the inappropriate behavior is, the response may involve consequences and reteaching or administrative involvement and action.

Ultimately, all of this is done consistently across students, staff, settings, and situations. This involves consistent behavioral expectations and instruction; consistent peer, staff, or setting prompts and cues; and consistent positive, corrective, or administrative responses. This instruction