Moreover, in a circular way, children’s discipline problems increased teacher frustration and turnover and lowered their expectations, which, in turn, led to teacher exhaustion and greater difficulties with classroom management.

* Consistency. As noted previously, a high level of teacher inconsistency in holding students accountable for inappropriate behavior often strengthens their inappropriate behavior, making it more resistant to change and decreasing their motivation to demonstrate appropriate behavior.

* Special Situations. Finally, there are times when teachers are dealt or are dealing with their own special situations that affect student behavior in the classroom. For example, sometimes the mix of challenging students that a teacher was dealt at the beginning of the year are feeding off of one another, making it nearly impossible for the teacher to implement classroom instruction, behavior management, and strategic interventions on even the best of days. In addition, just like anyone else, some teachers are dealing with out-of-school situations and stressors that they bring into the classroom. This may affect the quality of their relationships and interactions with students, which, in turn, may result in inappropriate student behavior.

The curricular characteristics and factors domain involves the contents and characteristics of the academic and social, emotional, and behavioral curricula used in a classroom or that were used with specific students in the past. The most important characteristics here include how each (formal or informal) curriculum (a) identifies its instructional goals and objectives—largely through its scope and sequence and pacing charts; (b) organizes its content, instructional materials, and embedded pedagogical approaches; (c) uses its materials and approaches to facilitate teachers’ differentiation or modification to address the needs of different learners; (d) assesses and monitors student learning, progress, and mastery; and (e) documents its effectiveness and efficacy in all of the areas above with different types of students.

At times, students are not learning, mastering, or demonstrating appropriate social, emotional, or behavioral skills in the classroom because of curricular factors. When this occurs, it is usually because of the absence of effective (or effectively modified) or the presence of ineffective