the Behavioral Matrices printed into the school’s student/parent handbook, updating the school’s website) need to be accomplished during the summer so that PBSS activities can begin on the first day of school.

## The Get-Go Process.

The Get-Go process is a student review process where the progress and current status of every student in the school is discussed at the end of the school year to determine if he or she needs services, supports, strategies, or programs on the first day of the new school year or soon thereafter. Using this process, information and lessons learned about students during the current school year are systematically transferred to the teachers and others who will have them in their classrooms after the summer break. While this process is largely coordinated by the building-level SPRINT team in collaboration with each grade- or instruction-level team, the school discipline/PBSS committee is informally involved as it shares (a) the results of the most recent ADDRESS (or other ODR) data—analyzed by student, teacher, and grade level for each quarter of the school year and cumulatively across the entire school year; (b) what social, emotional, and behavioral skills were actually taught at each grade level during the present school year; and (c) the results of any special situation analyses that were completed and implemented. Because there is at least one grade- or instruction-level team representative on the school discipline/PBSS committee, these representatives can discuss this information during the separate grade- or instruction-level Get-Go sessions.

When implemented, a Get-Go review generally takes no more than two to three minutes per student. Typically, representatives from the building-level SPRINT team and all of the instructional staff on a grade- or instruction-level teaching team simply go down a prepared list of all of their students, deciding together if each student is a Get-Go, At-Risk, Check-In, or No Problem student. The names of students identified in one of the first three categories are placed on a Get-Go Review and Analysis Form, and the specific areas of concern and any needed instructional or intervention approaches are briefly described. For the Get-Go and At-Risk students, these entries are more fully documented by teachers’ completion of a Student Briefing Report (see the next articulation activity below). No Problem students are those students who the team believes will have no academic or social, emotional, or behavioral problems during the transition