competing incentives and consequences are present. An effective accountability system in a school or classroom has both incentives and consequences available, as some students are motivated to receive incentives and others are motivated to avoid consequences.

When developing schoolwide student accountability systems, the expected behaviors should be clear and behaviorally described. In addition, the system should specify the incentives for appropriate behavior and progressive levels of consequences or responses to match different intensity levels of inappropriate behavior. While they may differ due to students’ developmental and maturational differences, incentives and consequences must be meaningful to students and powerful enough to motivate appropriate behavior. If the incentives and consequences in a schoolwide accountability system are meaningful to the staff but not the students, the motivational system will fail.

In addition, we need to recognize that there are competing incentives and consequences in students’ lives. For example, at times, there is a “triangulation” among an individual student, his or her teacher, and his or her peers. Thus, in the face of negative peer pressure, a student may not comply with a teacher, because compliance will result in later peer taunting, bullying, or rejection. When competing against each other, unless a teacher’s motivational system is stronger than that of the peers, a student is likely to respond to the peers and not to the teacher.

Finally, we need to understand that incentives and consequences are contextual. Once again, effective incentives and consequences simply increase the probability that students will make good choices or demonstrate the appropriate social, emotional, or behavioral skills that they have learned. There are few 100% guarantees.

**8. The intensity of a consequence should match the intensity of the offense. In addition, the most meaningful and powerful consequences are matched to each student and situation. The goal is to use the mildest consequence needed to motivate the quickest, largest, and most lasting change of student behavior.**

When using consequences across different students, teachers need to know their students well enough so that they choose the consequence that