contingencies so that more appropriate behavior is occurring for fewer, and eventually no, tokens. Four basic steps are needed to implement a token economy: identifying the target behaviors, selecting the tokens and the backup reinforcers, establishing the ratio of exchange and the procedures for when and how tokens will be dispensed and exchanged, and field testing the system. Token economies have been successful with a wide range of students, including those with specific disabilities and social, emotional, and behavioral concerns. This approach is one of the most positive strategic motivational interventions at the Tier 2 PBSS level.

## Group Contingencies: Independent, Dependent, and Interdependent.

The goal of this intervention is to motivate and increase positive, prosocial, and other appropriate or replacement target student behavior, or to decrease mild to moderate inappropriate behavior by involving the peer group in specific reinforcement contingencies. This intervention is especially helpful when the peer group is not reinforcing appropriate target student behavior, or when it is reinforcing inappropriate behavior.

Group contingency approaches typically begin as the target student and other students, for example in a classroom, are organized into groups or teams (cf. McKissick, Hawkins, Lentz, Hailey, & McGuire, 2010). Three different reinforcement contingencies can be used: (a) where all students must meet a set level of behavioral expectations in order for each student to individually earn an identified reinforcement (independent group contingencies); (b) where one or more target students must meet a set level of behavioral expectations in order for the group to earn an identified reinforcement (dependent group contingencies); or (c) where every student in the group must meet a set level of behavioral expectations in order for the group to earn an identified reinforcement (interdependent group contingencies).

In order to implement this intervention effectively, the teacher, behavioral consultant or specialist, or mental health practitioner should follow a specific sequence of steps:

1. Strategically select the groups for the goals of the intervention. When organizing the entire classroom into groups, change the student makeup of the groups at least every marking period.