### 3. Resolution Skills:
- Providing emotional support or empathy
- Being assertive
- Asking for help
- Setting a goal
- Problem solving
- Dealing with consequences
- Dealing with teasing, being rejected, or being left out

Critically (see Chapters 8 and 9), there are four related skill instruction areas where these four student groups might be having difficulties—individually or as part of a group: (a) they may not have been taught or mastered these skills, (b) they may be learning or mastering these skills at a slower rate than their peers, (c) they may not have learned or mastered the ability to transfer or apply these skills in real-life situations, or (d) they may not have learned or mastered the ability to use these skills under highly (for them) emotional conditions. Clearly, if the problem analysis confirms one or more of these as the direct (for the aggressors) or indirect (for the other three student groups) reasons for the TTBHHPA, the intervention plan will need to include skill instruction. This may occur, as needed, on an individual student or on a group instruction level, and the instruction should follow the principles and practices already described in the Stop & Think skills chapter (see Chapter 5).

Relative to skill instruction, role-playing and performance feedback are essential elements. Once the TTBHHPA situations have been analyzed and specific social, emotional, or behavioral skills identified, the teaching, scripting, and role-playing process can begin. For example, a Stop & Think skills script to teach a student how to deal with bullying might include the following in a role-play situation between an actual bully and a previously victimized student, or between a student playing a bully and the victimized student:

Here comes Jason. He’s always picking on me. Oh no—he saw me! [Jason starts to bully ...] I need to Stop and Think. Am I going to make a good choice or a bad choice? If I make a bad choice, Jason