Naturally, the positive practice requirement should be done at times that are convenient for the teacher and others involved, but it should involve—as much as possible—the individuals (especially the adults) who were present for the original offense. Even if somewhat artificial, the goal here is to hold students accountable for appropriate behavior in specific settings with the people who typically are present in those settings. The positive practice also increases the probability that students will demonstrate appropriate behavior in the future because (a) they are motivated to avoid the positive practice requirement, and/or (b) the practice has taught or strengthened the appropriate behavior or choice.

10. Consistency, along with skill instruction, motivation, and accountability, are necessary, interdependent scientific components of student competency and self-management. While largely a process, consistency must be embedded within all of the other scientific principles and practices above.

Consistency, when setting social, emotional, and behavioral expectations, teaching competency and self-management skills, motivating and responding to students’ use of these skills, and holding them accountable when inappropriate behavior occurs is essential to PBSS student, staff, and school outcomes (see Figure 1.3). Inconsistency weakens the instructional and motivational process, and it undermines adults’ ability to hold students accountable. This often results in students who have not learned and mastered needed social, emotional, and behavioral skills and students who choose to demonstrate (continued) inappropriate behavior. Consistency is needed on an individual student level as well as across students, staff, settings, circumstances, and situations.

Figure 1.3 Consistency Across the Scientific Components of the Positive Behavioral Support System