# Foreword

With more than 39 years of experience in education serving as a teacher, principal, superintendent, commissioner of education, senior fellow at the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, and now president of the International Center for Leadership in Education, I have had the pleasure of meeting a number of great educators, but few rise to the level of Howie Knoff.

When a professional spends more than 20 years doing great work, we should admire him. But when someone spends more than 20 years doing great work, achieving great results, and then they take it to scale over and over again, I call it amazing! Those of us who know Howie Knoff don’t expect any less of him. I first met Howie when I hired him as a waterfront instructor for a camp I directed for inner city children from Boston. Howie needed money for college and all I could offer him was a little bit—a very little bit. And yet, Howie took the job because he wanted to make a difference in the lives of the children, and he has been doing that ever since that summer long ago.

We live in an educational environment obsessed with test scores, control, and predictability, and because of that, we build most school improvement plans around quantitative (hard) data gleaned from test results in core curriculum areas. We design solutions to poor student performance around specific content weaknesses that we see in the data, and then we launch a solution and wait to see the performance rise and behaviors change. This is clearly not how it should happen.

In this book, Howie Knoff takes a systems perspective and approach to the challenges faced by educators around discipline, behavior management, and school safety. By that I mean that his is not an add-on to the system but a way to embed this important work into the culture of the system. Trying to