etc.) in their school and district and in the surrounding districts and communities. This helps them to quickly and accurately match a student and his or her needs to the right therapist who can deliver the right interventions.

All of this needs to occur so that a coordinated and integrated home-school-community treatment plan is executed. That is, it is essential that all of the professionals working with a student at the Tier 3 level are working in complementary—rather than in isolated—ways. When coordination does not occur, there is a distinct potential that the community and school services might end up being either redundant or even contradictory. None of this benefits the student or those working with that student. When school-based mental health services are provided, this potential can be minimized because everyone is working in the same setting. When school-linked mental health services are provided in the community and away from the school, time and distance can create problems that are only minimized by high and conscious levels of communication and coordination by both school and agency or community personnel.

Finally, some students require such intensive crisis-oriented Tier 3 services that these need to be coordinated and delivered more in the community than at the school. These wrap-around services involve extensive community mental health services to students and their families, and these services often are strengthened by other family supports, services, and caregivers. In extreme cases, these services involve psychiatric inpatient care. When this is needed, the school often is not directly responsible or involved in the social, emotional, or behavioral components of the student’s care. At the same time, the school may still be responsible to ensure that the student is receiving appropriate academic instruction and services, and it needs to have a transition plan in place for when the student is ready to return.

## SUMMARY

This chapter focuses on the social, emotional, and behavioral instructional or intervention supports, strategies, services, or programs that some students need when they are not responding to effective classroom instruction or management. Integrating the evidence-based PBSS blueprint