student behavior. Moreover, the students were not taught self-management skills, nor were they given opportunities to positively practice and be reinforced for these skills.

Clearly, the low number of office discipline referrals at this middle school was more reflective of the faculty’s behavior than the students’ behavior. More important, the failure to teach and hold the students accountable for their self-management skills in middle school negatively impacted their ability to transition effectively to the high school, and it resulted in a loss of academic time and instruction during the first months of their freshman years.

# INTRODUCTION

Accountability is defined as “being willing to accept responsibility for one’s actions.” While it is important for students (and others) to accept responsibility for their social, emotional, and behavioral actions and interactions after they have done something, from a self-management perspective it is more important that they think and prepare to act responsibly before a specific interaction. To facilitate this, students need to have a framework, blueprint, or roadmap that identifies expected positive prosocial behaviors in different school settings and different levels of inappropriate behavior so that they understand that some inappropriate behaviors are more serious than others. While these frameworks are more external and adult-guided with younger students, an important self-management goal is to help students internalize different behavioral accountability frameworks over time so that they can respond to the increasing levels of social complexity that extend from preschool through high school and beyond. Indeed, when students internalize a sound social, emotional, and behavioral accountability framework, they learn to stop and think before certain interactions, to consider the advantages (or incentives) versus disadvantages (or consequences) of appropriate or inappropriate behavior, respectively, and to select the appropriate choices.

Given this, schools need to develop, teach, and consistently implement schoolwide behavioral accountability systems at the grade or instructional classroom level and across the different common areas of the school,