- Teachers at this school use data (academic or behavioral) to make decisions about students.
- Teachers at this school involve students in identifying and selecting appropriate incentives and reinforcements for acceptable behavior.

---

# INTRODUCTION

Throughout this book, we have emphasized that a school’s Positive Behavioral Support System (PBSS) exists within the context of its effective school and schooling processes, and that activities related to academics, instruction, and achievement are interdependent with those focusing on discipline, behavior management, and self-management. Within Project ACHIEVE’s evidence-based PBSS, the scientific principles supporting students’ social, emotional, and behavioral competency have been discussed within the context of seven primary goals and six functional components. In addition, we have emphasized that some students still exhibit different intensities of inappropriate feelings, thoughts, beliefs, attributions, behaviors, and interactions, even when they are in classrooms with effective instruction and classroom management, and that we need multi-tiered systems of services, supports, strategies, and programs to address all students’ social, emotional, and behavioral needs (see Chapter 1 for all).

This chapter continues the problem-solving presentation begun in Chapter 8, concentrating on the student-focused strategic and intensive instructional and intervention approaches that are identified toward the end of the problem analysis phase of the data-based functional assessment process. These approaches are linked to the seven high-hit reasons why some students do not demonstrate effective social, emotional, or behavioral self-management skills or interactions; or exhibit significant inappropriate emotions or behaviors. Because more specialized behavioral or mental health consultants (e.g., school psychologists, counselors, applied behavior specialists, special educators) typically work with classroom teachers to identify these approaches, and because they involve more strategic implementation, even in the general education classroom, they are categorized as (at least) Tier 2 interventions. As emphasized in Chapter 1, the tiers of the multi-tiered model reflect the intensity of the services and