the initiative. These lessons were taught on a weekly basis at every grade level, and students with social, emotional, and behavioral challenges were provided additional instruction in intensive small group or individual social skills counseling groups.

While Project ACHIEVE continues to be implemented at Dutch Broadway Elementary School, data were collected as part of the grant report after the 2000 to 2001 and 2001 to 2002 school years (see Kilian, Fish, & Maniago, 2006). The evaluation tools included (a) classroom behavioral checklists, completed by teachers and focusing on the students’ social skills, inappropriate behavior and noncompliance with class and school rules, and serious disciplinary offenses; (b) student, teacher, paraprofessional, and parent surveys; (c) office discipline referrals and subsequent consequences, including suspensions; and (d) standardized test scores. A demographically matched comparison school within the district also was used to evaluate the impact of Project ACHIEVE’s PBSS.

Behavioral results were documented during the first two years of implementation:

- Consistent decreases in undesirable behaviors occurred across all grades in both classroom and non-classroom settings. For example, bullying behavior decreased from 22 to zero incidents in Grade 3, and by 94.7% in Grade 4, 78.6% in Grade 5, and 82.4% in Grade 6. In the 18 negative student behavior areas tracked, decreased incident rates were noted in 14 of 18 areas in Grade 3 through Grade 5.
- Students at all grade levels improved considerably in the behaviors evaluated within the social skills category.
- Discipline referrals to the principal’s office decreased 58% (from 101 during 2000 to 2001 to 42 during 2001 to 2002).
- School suspensions for disciplinary reasons decreased from 15 during 2000 to 2001 to 9 during 2001 to 2002.

Academic results were documented during the first two years of implementation (using the New York State Grade 4 English/Language Arts Test):

- For the Dutch Broadway students, 19% scored at the highest level of the test (scores of 692 to 800) compared with 16% of the comparison