abductions or kidnappings; sleep deprivation or restrictions on personal hygiene; yelling at, swearing at, and insulting new members or rookies; being forced to wear embarrassing or humiliating attire in public or to be publicly naked; consumption of vile substances or smearing them on one’s skin; burnings, brandings, or physical beatings; binge drinking, drinking games, or forced alcoholic (or water) consumption; and sexual simulation and sexual assault. At least 45 states have laws or legislation that specifically address hazing.

Given the group dynamics, the social pressure, and the institutional history within some organizations, clubs, or teams, hazing is distinctly different from teasing, taunting, bullying, harassment, and physical aggression. And yet, it clearly fits within the context of the student-specific special situation discussions in this chapter. In the end, many of the prevention-oriented recommendations outlined above are applicable to hazing. From a problem-solving perspective, the generational history of hazing within some groups will need to be added to the analysis and to the intervention. At a crisis-management level, students (and the adults supervising them) need to recognize that no amount of physical or emotional harm is worth a membership into any organization or club. Every year, there are too many incidents of the damage experienced by students due to hazing. Hazing, like teasing, taunting, bullying, cyberbullying, harassment, and physical aggression, must be integrated into schoolwide PBSS approaches.

## SUMMARY

This chapter focuses on the student-specific special situations of TTBHHPA at the prevention, problem solving, and crisis management levels. Relative to these levels, a sixth peer group characteristics, issues, and factors domain was added to the five special situation domains (i.e., the student, teacher and staff, environmental, incentive and consequence, and resource and resource utilization domains) described in Chapter 6. This domain is needed given research establishing that peers directly or actively reinforce (by being antagonists) or indirectly or inadvertently reinforce (by observing, but being uninvolved bystanders) others’ bullying behavior.