mental health professional is not the intervention. The intervention is the strategy, intervention, therapy, or program that is delivered in the group or by the professional. Said another way, we should not be satisfied that a student is going to counseling. We should be satisfied only if the student is going to the right professional, who is delivering the right intervention, resulting in the right outcomes, achieved in the right amount of time, cost, and effort.

Moreover, given the devastating impact of some especially traumatic special situations, the right outcomes will need to be defined in realistic, short-term goals that are individualized and tailored to the student, the history, and the prevailing dynamics of the situation. Recognizing that change often is relative and personal relative to special situations, a student’s ability to emotionally and cognitively cope with a past trauma often is prerequisite to the behavioral changes that others want to see. At the same time, when designed and implemented with integrity by the right mental health professional, some strategic special situation interventions are so successful that the student’s emotional coping and control skills generalize quickly, resulting in high levels of social and behavioral competence, self-management, and independence.

## SOCIAL, EMOTIONAL, AND BEHAVIORAL INSTRUCTION/INTERVENTION AT THE TIER 3 LEVEL

Tier 3 instructional or intervention supports, strategies, services, or programs are used with students (a) who do not respond to Tier 2 interventions (that are implemented with integrity and monitored over time through the collection of reliable and valid data), or (b) who demonstrate a significant, immediate need for intensive intervention. In the latter case, Tier 2 processes and interventions may be expedited, reduced, or even bypassed, as determined by the building-level School Prevention, Review, and Intervention Team (SPRINT). Once identified, Tier 3 instruction and intervention involve the most specialized, intensive, or multifaceted approaches. Typically, they involve multidisciplinary experts, consultants, supports, and resources and integrated home, school, community