those in rural areas or that have limited budgets). In addition, as **ADDRESS** data are housed on a local computer or server, all data remain the property of the school or district, and the security and confidentiality of the data can be locally assured.

- Its files can be saved and are transportable, and they can be archived and recovered easily from year to year.
- It was designed to be user-friendly. Data entry, in particular, is highly efficient, and repetitive data entries are not required.
- It comes with a sample ODR form (see Table 10.3) used by staff when sending misbehaving students to the office that is adapted to reflect the specific variables or descriptors chosen by an individual school for tracking and entered into the software during its initial setup. Because the form is largely organized in check-off boxes, it can be completed quickly, it provides more information (at the office) than forms that ask for written descriptions of the discipline problem, and the data are easily transferred from the form into the **ADDRESS** database (for later cumulative analysis).

## Observing and Evaluating Classroom Discipline and Behavior Management.

During the past decade, walk-throughs have been recommended as a brief, time-effective way to evaluate the quality of instructional interactions within a classroom (Downey, Steffy, English, Frase, & Poston, 2004; Skretta, 2007). Typically involving three- to five-minute observations of specific classroom interactions, most of the published walk-throughs have focused on academic engagement or effective instruction. In 2008, staff from the Arkansas Department of Education’s State Personnel Development Grant developed a behaviorally oriented walk-through protocol focusing on classroom management to extend the ADE’s work with Teach-scape, a company involved in applying technology to school improvement and success. Based on much of the behavioral and classroom management research and work cited in this book, the *Effective Classroom Management Classroom Walk-Through (CWT)* was developed for principals or others to evaluate the degree of positive, effective, and proactive classroom management approaches in classrooms across their school.

As designed, the *Effective Classroom Management CWT* protocol involves 23 items organized in three areas (see Table 10.4):