- **Hypothesis #5 (Accountability):** Motivation/Performance Deficit. A student is not motivated to learn or apply his or her social, emotional, or behavioral skills.
- **Hypothesis #6 (Consistency):** Inconsistency. Inconsistency exists somewhere in the instructional, motivational, or transfer of training process. This could involve the inconsistent teaching or prompting of social, emotional, or behavioral skills; the inconsistent use of incentives, consequences, or accountability approaches; or inconsistency that is related to different peer, staff, setting, or situational expectations, interactions, or responses.
- **Hypothesis #7 (Special Situation):** Setting, Peer, Life Circumstances. A student is experiencing or reacting to significant past or present situations or circumstances in one or more common areas of the school; with one or more peers—involving significant levels of teasing, taunting, bullying, harassment, hazing, or physical aggression; or in some school, home, or community facet of his or her life. This problem is impacting his or her (a) social, emotional, or behavioral learning, mastery, or transfer; (b) motivation to use already learned social, emotional, or behavioral skills; or (c) consistency or stability.

**Step 4: Assessing to Confirm or Reject Hypotheses**

Once a set of viable hypotheses has been generated, the problem-solving process proceeds as assessments are conducted to confirm or reject these hypotheses. This is done by collecting student data when the hypothesized conditions are present (the positive prediction) and absent (the converse prediction), respectively. For example, given the hypothesis that “Jason is throwing chairs because the math work is too hard for him and he gets frustrated,” we need to collect data reflecting two conditions:

- *Positive Prediction:* When Jason gets math work that is too hard for him, he gets frustrated and throws chairs.
- *Converse Prediction:* When Jason gets math work that he can do, he does not get frustrated (he is calm and engaged), and he does not throw chairs (he is on-task and completes the work).