will think that I’m afraid of him, and he’ll bully me for the rest of the year. I need to make a good choice. What are my choices or steps? Well, first I need to take a deep breath, stand up straight, and look right at Jason. Next, I need to tell him in a firm voice that I don’t want any trouble with him and that I am going to walk away from him. Last, I need to keep my eyes on him, back off him, and then walk away as soon as I am a safe distance away. OK—I’m ready to just do it. Here I go. Great—I did a good job. Hopefully, he’ll stay away from me from now on.

Critically, the role-plays should focus first on teaching the student the skill scripts and behaviors to mastery; then on facilitating the transfer or application of the skill in different settings and situations, and with different aggressor and bystander behaviors; and then on practicing the skill under conditions of emotionality so that the student can execute the skill in real life when these conditions exist. Beyond this, when the Stop & Think skill is role-played by a past bully and his or her victim, both parties need to learn how to both prosocially interact in and proactively disengage from future situations that may lead to renewed bullying. In this way, the bully and the victim learn (and, hopefully, practice) the prosocial interactions that prevent future bullying, the disengagement interactions that deter the early stages of bullying, and the response interactions to successfully resolve a situation if bullying reoccurs.

**Motivation/Accountability.** Beyond the skill areas, some students may be aggressors, victims, or bystanders, respectively, because either there are incentives or consequences motivating their TTBHHPA-related behaviors or they are not held accountable (e.g., by themselves, staff, peers, or parents) for appropriate behavior. While these motivation and accountability areas are embedded in the teacher and staff and incentive and consequence special situation domains (see Chapter 6), analyses need to identify whether these areas are contributing to the TTBHHPA behavior on an individual or student group level. That is, for example, a bully (bully-victim) may be motivated to bully because he or she wants attention, control, power, or revenge. A negative bystander may be motivated to support bullying because he or she wants the attention, social support, or validation of the bully (or someone else), or to avenge a previous situation