safety, student discipline and self-management, and classroom engagement and academic achievement.

# INTRODUCTION

School improvement is a continuous process where professional development and capacity-building initiatives, activities that scale up and sustain success, and evaluations that assess short- and long-term outcomes —all at the system, school, staff, and student levels—never end. Similarly, the implementation of schoolwide PBSS is ongoing, facilitated by end-of-year activities that ensure that policies, procedures, practices, and other lessons learned are transferred systematically from one school year to the next.

As introduced in Chapter 1, Project ACHIEVE is a comprehensive pre-school through high school continuous improvement and school effectiveness program whose ultimate goal is to design and implement effective school and schooling processes that maximize the academic and social, emotional, and behavioral progress and achievement of all students. Using a strategic planning, capacity building, professional development, and technical assistance process that helps students, staff, schools, and systems to continuously improve and become independent over time, Project ACHIEVE’s PBSS implementation blueprints, procedures, and strategies have been the foundation of most of the effective practices embedded throughout this book. In Chapter 2, a detailed four-year PBSS implementation blueprint was discussed. While some schools may implement it in more or less than four years, the blueprint, nonetheless, can be used to evaluate a school’s progress in implementing essential activities and sustaining critical outcomes.

Consistent with the data management, evaluation, and accountability component in Project ACHIEVE’s effective schools blueprint (see Chapter 1), this chapter discusses some instruments, tools, and approaches that exemplify different ways to evaluate the success of a PBSS initiative across its primary goals and objectives. It also addresses a number of systematic ways to transfer, or articulate, PBSS successes from year to year, so that every school year begins, on the first day of school, at full throttle.