- There is a public address system that works properly, can be accessed from several areas in the school, and can be heard and understood both inside and outside of the school

Beyond the school safety audits, other environmental characteristics, issues, and factors include the physical layout of the different common school areas, the traffic patterns within each setting, the formal and informal scheduling that results in different numbers of students in these settings at different times of the day, and the scheduling and physical deployment of staff members relative to presence and supervision.

**Incentives and Consequences.** This domain involves the incentives and consequences that motivate individual students, peer groups of students, and staff members to demonstrate the interpersonal, social problem-solving, conflict prevention and resolution, and emotional coping skills that result in positive, safe, and secure common school areas. To be effective, most of these incentives and consequences should be delivered in the actual settings where the behavior or interactions occur, and, as students get older, the best incentives and consequences come from the peer group or from the students themselves. At times, however, prosocial behavior in the common areas of the school is strengthened when there also are teacher- or classroom-based incentives or consequences. That is, some students demonstrate more appropriate common school area behavior when classroom teachers hold them accountable in these settings through classroom-delivered incentives and consequences.

The impact and selection of incentives and consequences was discussed from a scientific perspective in Chapter 1 and from a student accountability perspective in the context of the Behavioral Matrix in Chapter 4. Expanding briefly on the latter, there are times when a Behavioral Matrix for a specific common school area is strategically important or useful. Typically developed to address persistent misbehavior on a school bus or in the cafeteria, these more specialized matrices are recommended as a result of data-based special situation analyses (see section below). Thus, common school area matrices are not generally needed or recommended at the Tier 1 prevention level. They are discussed here to provide examples of appropriate incentives and consequences that are contingent on students’ common school area behavior.