The Behavioral Matrix is essentially a behavioral standards document with explicit expectations that students are taught and held accountable to. The explicit goal of the Behavioral Matrix is to create a positive, responsive, schoolwide accountability system that results in high levels of positive and prosocial classroom engagement and school safety, progressively higher levels of self-managed student behavior, and low levels of negative student interactions and office discipline referrals. The implicit goal of the Behavioral Matrix is to maximize the consistency needed to accomplish the outcomes above across students, staff, and administration.

These goals are accomplished by applying the science underlying the PBSS process (see Chapter 1). Indeed, the Behavioral Matrix (a) identifies many of the social, emotional, and behavioral skills and classroom or building expectations that students must be taught to move them to social competency and self-management (Principle 1); (b) recognizes, from preschool through high school, that these skills and expectations evolve developmentally and maturationally over time (Principle 3); (c) encourages the use of explicit, meaningful, student-centered incentives and consequences to motivate and hold them accountable for appropriate behavior (Principles 5, 7, and 8); and (d) facilitates a consistent focus on the essential behaviors and interactions expected of all students, and the ways to respond to students demonstrating different levels of inappropriate behavior (Principle 10). Critically, when the matrix’s different elements are agreed upon by the staff across the school, taught and communicated consistently to students, and implemented with integrity and intensity, high and appropriate levels of responsibility, accountability, and self-management result for most students.

This chapter describes the step-by-step development of the Behavioral Matrices within a school. At the preschool level, only one Behavioral Matrix (for ages three to five) typically is needed. For elementary schools, a separate Behavioral Matrix is developed at every grade level when there are three or more teachers at each grade level. For elementary schools with only one or two teachers per grade level, separate merged Kindergarten/Grade 1, Grade 2/3, and Grade 4/5 matrices are recommended. For middle schools, the size of the faculty, the number of faculty members that teach at multiple grade levels, and the maturational differences across the students need to be considered. When there are five or more teachers per grade level and they