Individual counseling/behavior therapy  
Behavioral Matrix Intensity III and IV responses and consequences  
Intensive interventions: relaxation therapy, desensitization, cognitive-behavioral strategies, etc.  
School-based mental health services  
Intensive wrap-around/continuum of care programming  

Source: Project ACHIEVE Press. Dr. Howie Knoff (author).  

When counseling or social, emotional, or behavioral therapy is needed by a student at the Tier 3 level, there are critical questions for the SPRINT team to ask and answer:  

- What are the social, emotional, or behavioral goals, skills, or changes needed by the student?  
- What evidence- or research-based therapeutic strategies or techniques will most effectively help the student (and others) to attain these goals?  
- Who is the best therapist within the school, district, or community to provide the therapy?  

As noted earlier, sending a student to counseling or therapy—or to a counselor or psychologist—is not the intervention. The intervention is the delivery of the right therapeutic strategies or techniques during the counseling or psychotherapy sessions that are needed by a student to facilitate change. And so, as in Figure 9.2, examples of the right strategies typically are the cognitive-behavioral or behavior therapy strategies like progressive muscle relaxation therapy, thought stopping, systematic desensitization, cognitive-control strategies, or aggression replacement therapy.  

In order to find the right therapist to meet a student’s needs, schools and their SPRINT teams need to know the training backgrounds, skills, areas of licensure or certification, and areas of expertise and specialization of all of the mental health practitioners (counselors, psychologists, social workers,