and enhance school climate. *Journal of Applied School Psychology*, 23(1), 1–30.

Kleinman, K. E., & Saigh, P. A. (2011). The effects of the Good Behavior Game on the conduct of regular education New York City high school students. *Behavior Modification*, 35(1), 95–105.

Klem, A. M., & Connell, J. P. (2004). Relationships matter: Linking teacher support to student engagement and achievement. *Journal of School Health*, 74, 262–273.

Knoff, H. M. (2000). Organizational development and strategic planning for the millennium: A blueprint toward effective school discipline, school safety, and crisis prevention. *Psychology in the Schools*, 37, 17–32.

Knoff, H. M. (2001). *The Stop & Think Social Skills Program* (Preschool–Grade 1, Grades 2/3, Grades 4/5, Middle School 6–8). Longmont, CO: Cambium Learning/Sopris West.

Knoff, H. M. (2005a). *Character education vs. social skills training: Comparing constructs vs. behavior*. Little Rock, AR: Project ACHIEVE Press.

Knoff, H. M. (2005b). *The Stop & Think parent book: A guide to children’s good behavior*. Little Rock, AR: Project ACHIEVE Press.

Knoff, H. M. (2007a). Best practices in strategic planning, organizational assessment, and school effectiveness. In A. Thomas & J. Grimes (Eds.), *Best practices in school psychology—V*. Bethesda, MD: National Association of School Psychologists.

Knoff, H. M. (2007b). *Changing student behavior by linking office discipline referrals to a strategic time-out process: A step-by-step implementation guide to the effective use of classroom consequences*. Little Rock, AR: Project ACHIEVE Press.

Knoff, H.M. (2007c). *Developing and implementing the Behavioral Matrix: Establishing school-wide behavioral standards and benchmarks for student accountability*. Little Rock, AR: Project ACHIEVE Press.

Knoff, H. M. (2007d). Holding students responsible for their school and classroom behavior: Developing a school-wide accountability system to encourage student self-management and staff consistency. Little Rock, AR: Project ACHIEVE Press. Knoff, H. M. (2007e). More Stop & Think