systems, psychodynamic), and the specific clinical techniques available should be outlined. Finally, the scope of services, populations served, specific qualifying criteria (if any), and indicators of clinical success should be shared. With this directory, schools and districts can make strategic community-based referrals of students and parents when needed. The directory is particularly important when coordinating home-school-community, wrap-around, or continuum systems of care services for students with complex, significant, or multifaceted needs.

**Action 2.9: Completion of the Scale of Staff Interactions and School Cohesion and Scale of Effective School Discipline and Safety.** In order to evaluate the staff’s perceptions of how well they interact with each other and the administration and of the existing discipline and behavior management attitudes and interactions across the school, the 25-item *Scale of Staff Interactions and School Cohesion* and the 58-item *Scale of Effective School Discipline and Safety* are completed (see Chapter 10). The results of these scales should be shared with the faculty at a meeting so they can be validated, clarified, and discussed. Activities to address the needs based on the results of the scales and follow-up discussions eventually are written into the PBSS section of the school improvement plan.

**Action 2.10: Development of the Committee Implementation Plans.** Based on the completed comprehensive needs assessment and resource analysis (Action 2.4), the school discipline/PBSS committee writes a three-year PBSS implementation plan and a one-year plan that is submitted to the SLT for integration into the next school improvement plan. An implementation preparation plan (if needed) also is written to cover the activities needed prior to Implementation Year 1 (see below).

**Action 2.11: Review and Alignment of School and District Policies With PBSS Directions.** If needed, the school makes sure that all of its internal policies are consistent with the existing PBSS initiative and its planned directions. The school discipline/PBSS committee, SLT, and administration discuss needed additions or changes to school or district policies and procedures—securing them either through the district’s administration or school board or by receiving a waiver from those that cannot be changed.