rollout is especially effective when students and parents are involved in introducing and discussing their involvement in developing the matrix and their commitment to its importance and implementation. At the secondary level, when well-respected students and student groups (e.g., student government, sports, and other representatives) actually present and endorse the matrix, the peer group recognizes its importance and necessity. At the elementary level, when popular and admired role models (e.g., from the high school or community) present and endorse the matrix, similar student commitments result.

Relative to training, the activities initiated during the rollout day should extend through the next two to three weeks. Critically, students need to learn, through direct training and role-play opportunities, every functional facet of the matrix. While many of the classroom expectations should be embedded in the school’s social, emotional, and behavioral skills instruction program (see Chapter 5), some of the classroom routines need to be explicitly taught and practiced. Similarly, the expectations and routines for the common areas of the school must be taught and accompanied by walk-throughs and supervised implementation. Finally, some of the more subtle matrix elements need instructional attention. For example, students will need training, practice, and feedback in how to recognize and respond to many of the Intensity 1 corrective responses (e.g., nonverbal redirects and teacher proximity). Moreover, some of the behaviors and emotions related to consequences should be addressed. For example, students will need behavioral instruction in the time-out process before it is ever used (see Chapter 9), and they need emotional instruction in how to accept a consequence without becoming so upset that they make the situation even worse for themselves. All of this training is consistent with the skills, accountability, and consistency foundation of the PBSS (see Chapters 1 and 5). If students are not taught the skills embedded in the matrix process itself, then the potential benefits of the process may never occur.

Finally, classroom and common area posters of the matrix, inserts for students’ binders and calendars, bookmarks and refrigerator magnets, and other support materials are helpful in making the matrix a more public, embedded, and conscious part of the schoolwide accountability process. For parents and community partners, the availability of a one-page handout describing the matrix and its place in the school’s discipline and behavior management process also is recommended. This paper may also become