causing or exacerbating a student’s social, emotional, or behavioral actions or reactions must be identified or dismissed. Included here are issues of vision and hearing, speech and communication, cognitive status and processing, sleep and fatigue, and drugs and alcohol. This is an essential step in understanding why some students present with challenging behavior. When present, these medical factors must be factored into both interpreting the assessments completed and planning and implementing the interventions needed.  

Beyond this, the primary reasons why students do not demonstrate appropriate and effective interactions or demonstrate inappropriate or ineffective social, emotional, or behavioral interactions relate to (a) their learning, transfer, and mastery of needed skills; (b) their motivation to demonstrate these skills and how or if they are held accountable for them; (c) the consistency of the expectations, teaching and practice, and motivation and accountability, relative to these skills, across students, staff, settings, and circumstances; and (d) special situations that involve common school settings, critical peer interactions, and unique life circumstances (see Figure 8.4). These four components were described in Chapter 1 when introducing the PBSS. They now are applied as seven high-hit reasons why students demonstrate challenging behaviors.  

* **Hypothesis #1 (Skills): Skill Deficit.** A student has not been taught or has not learned and mastered the social, emotional, or behavioral skills needed to exhibit appropriate behavior and to prevent or avoid inappropriate behavior.  
* **Hypothesis #2 (Skills): Speed of Acquisition.** A student is learning and demonstrating some social, emotional, or behavioral skills, but he or she is not learning and mastering these skills at the same rate or pace as other students in the classroom.  
* **Hypothesis #3 (Skills): Transfer of Training/Generalization.** A student is learning and demonstrating social, emotional, or behavioral skills when they are taught, but he or she is not transferring or applying these skills independently during real or actual situations.  
* **Hypothesis #4 (Skills): Conditions of Emotionality.** A student has not been taught or has not mastered the skills and behaviors to cope with situations or circumstances that trigger high levels of emotionality.