alternative behavior; (b) extinction or planned ignoring; (c) overcorrection —positive practice and restitutional; (d) response cost; and (e) time-out (see Kazdin, 2001; Kerr & Nelson, 2010; Knoff, 2010c).

## Differential Reinforcement of Low (DRL), Other (DRO), Incompatible (DRI), or Alternative (DRA) Behavior

These interventions use different reinforcement approaches and schedules to directly or indirectly decrease or eliminate inappropriate student behavior, while increasing and solidifying appropriate behavior (cf. LeGray, Dufrene, Sterling-Turner, Olmi, & Bellone, 2010). Among the least aversive or intrusive interventions that target inappropriate student behavior, there are three primary differential reinforcement approaches: (a) one, where the student receives positive reinforcement for engaging in progressively lower rates of an inappropriate target behavior to the point where it is eliminated (DRL); (b) a second, where the student receives positive reinforcement for engaging in one or more appropriate behaviors such that he or she substitutes and eliminates an inappropriate target behavior (DRO); and (c) a final one, where the student receives positive reinforcement for engaging in behaviors that either are incompatible with or cannot coexist with (that is, they are alternative to) an inappropriate target behavior (DRI, DRA). As with any positive reinforcement approach, powerful and meaningful (to the student) reinforcers are needed to motivate the student to change his or her inappropriate behavior, and the student’s inappropriate behavior must be conscious and intentional.

In order to implement this intervention effectively, the teacher, behavioral consultant or specialist, or mental health practitioner should follow a specific sequence of steps:

1. Identify the inappropriate behavior that needs to be decreased or eliminated.
2. Identify the replacement or other (DRO) behavior, the replacement behavior (DRL), or the incompatible or alternative (DRI, DRA) behavior desired, depending on the differential reinforcement strategy chosen for use.
3. Collect the baseline data relative to the frequency (duration, intensity) of the inappropriate behavior and of the replacement or appropriate behavior.