are included in the instructional or intervention plan to help turn the student around to success. The possible interplay between students’ academic status and their behavioral challenges explains why Project ACHIEVE’s effective schools model (see Chapter 1, Figure 8.1) emphasizes the interdependency (i.e., the overlap) between academic and behavioral instruction and intervention through the Positive Academic Supports and Services (PASS) and PBSS models, respectively.

Figure 8.1 The Three Components of Students’ Instructional Environments

Teacher-Instructional Factors: Are teachers well-matched to their students and curricula?

Student Factors: Are students prepared and “programmed” for success?

Curricular Factors: Are curricula well-matched to students and teachers?

Source: Project ACHIEVE Press (as adapted from Rosenfield, 1987). Dr. Howie Knoff (author).

When implemented with integrity, the RTI² process provides information and data that promote quality decisions regarding effective school and schooling practices and a cascade of approaches to address the academic or behavioral needs of At-Risk, underachieving, unresponsive, and unsuccessful students. The timing of when and where to pursue consultation and the data-based problem-solving process, however, is another critical decision. That is, at what level of risk, underachievement, unresponsiveness, or lack of success does a teacher begin the problem-solving process, and what criteria determine when to involve other consultants, the grade-level SPRINT team, or the building-level SPRINT team? Three principles help answer these questions: