**Action 1.4: Continued or Extended Social, Emotional, and Behavioral Intervention Training for Selected Staff.** During the school year, selected school discipline/PBSS committee and SPRINT team members continue to participate in strategic and intensive training in specific social, emotional, and behavioral intervention (Tier 2 and 3) areas.

**Action 1.5: Continued Community and Family Outreach and School-Based Mental Health.** Analyses of the school’s available intensive (Tier 3) social, emotional, and behavioral assessment and intervention resources at the family and community levels continues. This includes formalizing relations with health, mental, and wellness community practitioners, including those involved in school-based and school-linked community mental health services for crisis management and intensive need students and families.

**Action 1.6: Summer Facilitators’ Institute.** During June at the end of Year 3, a facilitator’s summit is held to debrief the past school year, provide any additional training or mentoring, and prepare the facilitators for their fully independent implementation of the PBSS.

# SUMMARY

The chapter provides a blueprint describing specific activities that schools should complete at the very beginning of their PBSS initiative through the end of their third year of full implementation. Embedded in this four-year blueprint are the most effective and efficient ways to accomplish the primary goals of a PBSS initiative using the effective school and schooling and PBSS components discussed in *Chapter 1*. It is important to recognize that this is a blueprint only. That is, schools need to use their needs assessments, resource analyses, and strategic planning processes to determine which activities to target and how to sequence them over a specific period of time. As such, some schools may complete the implementation parts of the PBSS blueprint in two years while others may take four or five.

This blueprint has been used in hundreds of schools across the country with well-documented student, staff, and school success. The remaining