- Bullying occurs along a spectrum from teasing and gossiping, to taunting and bullying, to harassment and verbal threats or intimidation, to physical aggression and violence. Some associate bullying with a lack of tolerance for diversity.
- Boys are generally found to be bullies more frequently than girls, although this may be due to researchers’ focus on the more overt forms of bullying which boys tend to engage in more than girls.
- Bullying appears to peak during the transition years from elementary to middle school (i.e., around age 11 or 12), occurring most frequently from sixth to eighth grade. Although bullies appear to be rejected and isolated during their elementary school years, they may become more accepted and liked by peers during middle school.
- Bullying has been correlated with indicators of anger, depression, impulsivity, anxiety, and attitudes that support violence. Bullies often have both social competence and academic challenges; negative expectations, attitudes, or beliefs about themselves, about school, and about others; and difficulties resolving problems with others. Bullies tend to be negatively influenced by their peers.
- Bullies tend to come from homes characterized by conflict and poor parental supervision, and they are influenced by negative community factors.
- Bullying occurs very often in unstructured school settings or common areas of the school (e.g., the playground). Bullying, however, does not correlate with school or class size.

### Bully-victims

- Bully-victims are rejected and isolated by their peers as they also exhibit their own bullying behavior. Bully-victims have more risk factors than either bullies or victims, and they are in greater need of prevention and intervention programs.
- Bully-victims typically exhibit both externalizing (e.g., acting out) and internalizing (e.g., anxiety, withdrawal, depression) difficulties.
- Bully-victims have significantly negative expectations, attitudes, or beliefs for themselves, and they demonstrate academic difficulties.
- Bully-victims lack social competence and social problem-solving skills, and they are negatively influenced by peers.