Stokes, T. F., & Baer, D. M. (1977). An implicit technology of generalization. *Journal of Applied Behavior Analysis*, 19, 349–367.  
Swearer, S. M., & Doll, B. (2001). Bullying in schools: An ecological framework. *Journal of Emotional Abuse*, 2, 7–23.  
Swearer, S. M., Espelage, D. L., & Napolitano, S. A. (2009). *Bullying prevention and intervention: Realistic strategies for schools*. New York, NY: Guilford Press.  
Swearer, S., Espelage, D. L., Vaillancourt, T., & Hymel, S. (2010). What can be done about school bullying? Linking research to educational practice. *Educational Researcher*, 39, 38–47.  
Texas School Safety Center. (2008). *Campus safety and security audit toolkit*. Austin, TX: Attorney General’s Office.  
Tingstrom, D. H., Sterling-Turner, H. E., & Wilczynski, S. M. (2006). The Good Behavior Game: 1969–2002. *Behavior Modification*, 30(2), 225–253.  
Tolan, P. H., Gorman-Smith, D., & Loeber, R. (2000). Developmental timing and onsets of disruptive behaviors and later delinquency of inner-city youth. *Journal of Child and Family Studies*, 9, 203–220.  
Trump, K. S. (2011). *Proactive school security and emergency preparedness planning*. Thousand Oaks, CA: Corwin.  
Ttofi, M. M., & Farrington, D. P. (2009). What works in preventing bullying: Effective elements of anti-bullying programs. *Journal of Aggression, Conflict and Peace Research*, 1, 13–24.  
U.S. Department of Education, Office of Planning, Evaluation and Policy Development, Policy and Program Studies Service. (2011). *Analysis of state bullying laws and policies*. Washington, DC: Author.  
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration. (2010). *National registry of evidence-based programs and practices* [Web registry]. Retrieved from http://www.nrepp.samhsa.gov/ViewIntervention.aspx?id=70  
Virginia Department of Education. (2000). *School safety audit*. Richmond, VA: Author.  
Vreeman, R. C., & Carroll, A. E. (2007). A systematic review of school-based interventions to prevent bullying. *Archives of Pediatric