- The quality of caring, communication, collaboration, consultation, consistency, and commitment among those working on the case
- The satisfaction of students, staff, parents, and others relative to the entire process

While all of these areas are important, successfully attaining desired student outcomes clearly is the most important outcome. At the same time, if some of the other outcomes above are not present or attained, the student-focused outcomes often are not realized.

### SUMMARY

Clearly, the data-based, functional assessment problem-solving process is essential to effectively identify, develop, execute, and evaluate the instructional or intervention approaches needed by students with social, emotional, or behavioral challenges. While the RTI² problem-solving process may seem complex, it becomes more fluid and automatic with practice and experience. At the same time, many of our most challenging students, themselves, are complex. Clearly, we need to make sure that every instructional or intervention approach needed by a student is strategically selected and effectively implemented. We cannot be satisfied with implementing just any intervention. In summary, we believe that every time we do an intervention with a challenging student, and it doesn’t work, we potentially make the student more resistant to the next intervention. Given this belief, we need to do high-probability-of-success interventions with our students. To accomplish this, we need to use sound, systematic, and skillful problem identification, problem analysis, intervention, and evaluation processes.

### NOTE

1. This chapter was adapted from Knoff, H. M. (2009). *Implementing Response-to-Intervention at the school, district, and state levels: Functional assessment, data-based problem solving, and evidence-based academic and