replaced by new members (see Chapter 3). If these new members can be chosen and confirmed in April, then they can attend the May and June meetings of the committee, giving them an early orientation to the committee and how it works and functions. During these meetings, they also can contribute to the committee’s strategic planning discussions as the discipline/PBSS section of the new SIP is drafted for the next school year. Critically, the SLT needs to coordinate the new member selection process for all of the school’s committees so that a smooth, seamless transition occurs for everyone involved.

As noted above, the school discipline/PBSS committee also collects and evaluates the data and outcomes for all of the goals written in its section of the current SIP. Committee members then determine what goals, objectives, and activities need to continue into the new school year and what new goals and activities should be added. All of these projected goals and activities are documented on a SIP or committee action plan, and they are submitted to the School Leadership Team (SLT) for consideration and inclusion in the next formal SIP.

As part of the April planning process, the school discipline/PBSS committee also completes a number of tasks so that certain PBSS activities are ready to begin immediately at the start of the next school year. Relative to these tasks, the committee should

- prepare next year’s Stop & Think Social Skills calendar, including an outline of the classroom and building routines that need to be taught at the beginning of the school year and that need to be reinforced after any vacations or significant breaks from school,
- look at and fine-tune (if needed) anything on the grade-level Behavioral Matrices, and prepare for the schoolwide and grade-level rollout of the Behavioral Matrices on the first day and weeks of school,
- identify what new or booster training will be needed for new and returning staff prior to the beginning of the next school year—especially in the area of social skills instruction, the implementation of the time-out process, and the response system that is built into the Behavioral Matrices, and
- take stock of what materials need to be ordered or prepared (e.g., social skill manuals and support materials; Behavioral Matrix posters; time-out logs, trackers, and passes), and what activities (e.g., getting