decisions to make after analyzing and interpreting the SSISC’s results. These decisions, and their effective execution, may contribute as much to the productive use of the SSISC as the results themselves.

**Evaluating Perceptions of Effective School Discipline and Safety.** In order to track the processes that facilitate PBSS success, schools need to periodically survey their staff as to their perceptions and beliefs relative to PBSS implementation and whether they are seeing selected PBSS outcomes. *The Scale of Effective School Discipline and Safety* (Knoff, 2007f; SESDS) is a 58-item survey that helps measure a number of the research- and practice-based PBSS processes discussed throughout this book. Once administered and analyzed, its results provide information about the first six of the seven PBSS goals above. To complete the SESDS, school staff members are asked to “rate the discipline and behavior management statements below on your level of agreement based on your general and specific experiences at your school within the past two months (or based on last year if this questionnaire is being completed prior to the beginning of the school year).” Each item is rated along a five-point scale from 1—Strongly Agree to 5—Strongly Disagree (see Table 10.2), and the data are pooled and can be analyzed (a) for the entire staff, (b) by different grade or instructional levels of staff, (c) by instructional versus administrative versus support staff, or (d) in some other functional way. Like the SSISC, the SESDS is a staff perception tool, its results need to be cross validated with other assessments, and all of the information needs to be synthesized into an integrated profile of school strengths, weaknesses, and areas of PBSS concern.

The SESDS was developed by asking school staff from across the country to complete a longer, draft version of the survey. After a series of statistical analyses, five factors were identified for the resulting 58 items: Factor 1: Teachers’ Effective Classroom Management Skills (24 items); Factor 2: Students’ Positive Behavioral Interactions and Respect (11 items); Factor 3: Holding Students Accountable for Their Behavior: Administration and Staff (7 items); Factor 4: Teachers’ Contribution to a Positive School Climate (9 items); and Factor 5: School Safety and Security: Staff, Students, and School Grounds (7 items). Factor 1 evaluates staff members’ perceptions of their colleagues’ social, emotional, and behavioral expectations of students—especially when they are in their classrooms; to