persistent or antisocial behaviors; and Intensity IV: severe or dangerous behaviors.

Functionally, the Behavioral Matrix facilitates the primary PBSS goal of teaching and motivating students’ social competency and self-management by targeting and increasing appropriate student behavior while decreasing or eliminating inappropriate student behavior both preventatively and after it occurs. More specifically, Quadrant I helps identify the specific social competency and self-management behaviors that students need to learn and demonstrate. Quadrant II describes ways to motivate and reinforce the use of these behaviors. Quadrant III identifies progressive levels of inappropriate behaviors for students to avoid. Finally, Quadrant IV describes the differential responses to the Quadrant III behaviors designed to motivate students to avoid these inappropriate behaviors or to eliminate them (if they occur) and replace them with appropriate behavior. Critically, Quadrant IV is not about stopping inappropriate behavior through punishment. It is about motivating students to decrease or eliminate their inappropriate behavior and replace it with appropriate behavior.

### Figure 4.1 The Organization of the Behavioral Matrix

Grade _______________

**Expected, Prosocial Behaviors (I)**  
Classroom  
Common areas of the school  

**Response (II)**  
Positive responses, incentives, rewards  

**Inappropriate, Challenging Behaviors (III)**  
Intensity I: annoying behavior  
Intensity II: disruptive/interfering behavior  
Intensity III: persistent/antisocial behavior*  
Intensity IV: severe/dangerous behavior*  

**Response (IV)**  
Corrective responses  
Corrective responses plus consequences  
Consequences plus interventions  
Administrative response plus wrap-around intervention  

*Functional assessment with strategic or intensive intervention  

Source: Project ACHIEVE Press. Dr. Howie Knoff (author).