leader and task force that will conduct the Special Situation Analysis and intervention planning process.  
5. In April and May, the Special Situation Analysis is completed (see Chapters 6 and 7).  
6. At the May meeting of the committee, the analysis and an intervention action plan for the new special situation is presented and approved.  
7. From May through the first day of the new school year, those relevant aspects of the intervention action plan are implemented.  
8. During the planning days immediately before school starts, on the first day of school, and during the weeks to follow, the intervention action plan continues to be implemented and outcomes are evaluated.  

During some years, there are special situations that cannot be resolved until the current year ends or the new school year begins. This may occur, for example, because their interventions require money that was not budgeted during the current school year but that will be available when the new fiscal year begins in July. Or the special situation may require changes—for example, the redesign of the daily schedule, hallway traffic patterns, the physical organization of the cafeteria—that can only occur during the summer. The school discipline/PBSS committee needs to make note of these circumstances and integrate them into their articulation processes toward the end of every school year.  

**Resource Needs Assessments, Results, and Planning.** Based on all of the articulation activities above, the school discipline/PBSS committee should compile a list of the resources and funds needed to complete them. The chair of the committee then should bring this list to the SLT meetings that focus on developing the goals, activities, and funding of the next SIP—meetings that typically occur toward the end of every school year. To make the strongest case possible, the committee and committee chair also need to analyze the PBSS resources provided and used during the past three years, and determine their return on investment relative to student, staff, and school outcomes. If fully funded, the committee will be ready to implement all of its planned activities in a timely way. If underfunded, the committee needs to analyze all of its activities, the resources needed, and once again, their relative return on investment, and select which articulation activities should be funded and implemented.