# Critical Pre-Intervention Questions:

- Can the teacher or class tolerate the initial increase in the frequency or duration of the inappropriate behavior while maintaining the integrity of the intervention?
- Does the student, and the rest of the class (to the degree needed), understand the intervention?
- Are the incentives and consequences meaningful and powerful?
- Is the inappropriate behavior likely to be imitated by others (for attention) and can this be discouraged?
- Is there enough time available to implement the intervention to its desired end?
- Is the teacher or class prepared to respond to any spontaneous recovery of the inappropriate behavior?

## Positive Practice and Restitutional Overcorrection.

The basic principle underlying overcorrection is that students will decrease or eliminate inappropriate behavior and replace it with appropriate behavior when, after demonstrating an inappropriate target behavior, they are required either (a) to positively practice the appropriate replacement behavior to an excessive degree; or (b) to fix, replace, or remediate—to an excessive degree—the damage or harm caused by the inappropriate behavior. In applying these principles through research and practice, these two related intervention approaches have demonstrated success with such problems as teasing, refusing to share materials, physical aggression, disruptive behavior, and self-injurious behavior. They also are designed, in general, to reduce other mild through severe inappropriate behaviors that have not responded to more positive behavioral interventions (including vandalism, sexual or other harassment, bullying). Critically, depending on the number, duration, or degree of overcorrection used with a student, these interventions can be aversive in nature. Thus, they typically need parent and administrative permission before being used as well as supervision by a trained psychologist, behavioral consultant, or mental health practitioner.

In positive practice overcorrection, the student must excessively practice the appropriate or replacement behavior that is the opposite of the inappropriate behavior exhibited. This intervention increases the probability of future appropriate behavior (because of the excessive positive practice),