what degree they consistently teach the behaviors representing these expectations; how they attend to and provide incentives, consequences, and feedback for appropriate and inappropriate behavior, respectively; and whether they treat students with respect and accept responsibility to support all students.

**Table 10.2 Scale of Effective School Discipline and Safety: Factor Analyzed Items and Rating Scale Used to Complete Items**

Factor 1: Teachers’ Effective Classroom Management Skills (24 items)

55. Teachers at this school provide appropriate incentives to both individual students and groups of students.

53. Teachers at this school provide consistent, immediate, and appropriate responses for acceptable student behavior.

51. Teachers at this school continuously monitor students’ academic and social behaviors.

54. Teachers at this school provide consistent, immediate, and appropriate responses for unacceptable student behavior.

58. Teachers at this school attend and acknowledge both acceptable and unacceptable student behaviors.

52. Teachers at this school use data (academic or behavioral) to make decisions about students.

56. Teachers at this school involve students in identifying and selecting appropriate incentives and reinforcements for acceptable behavior.

49. Teachers at this school believe that students’ problems must be assessed within the context of the student, the classroom, the instruction within the classroom, and the curriculum.

57. Teachers at this school involve students in identifying and selecting appropriate consequences for unacceptable behavior.

29. Teachers have high and reasonable behavioral expectations of their students.