hallways and bathrooms, supervision and safety are enhanced when students are an integral part of the process—motivating and reinforcing their peers for prosocial interactions, while discouraging or reporting inappropriate behaviors.

**Summary.** In the end, when schools take the preventative steps, across the student, teacher and staff, environmental, incentive and consequence, and resource and resource utilization domains, to build and sustain effective common school area procedures and interactions, the number of challenging behaviors and the intensity of the critical events that do occur are minimized. This results in fewer situations to address and debrief and less need to formally analyze why certain problems are occurring. At the same time, school staff members need to be trained and skilled in conducting Special Situation Analyses so that they can analyze and resolve, typically through the school discipline/PBSS committee, serious or persistent common school area problems. The next section of this chapter briefly outlines this analysis process using the five special situation domains above.

# THE FIVE SETTING-SPECIFIC COMMON SCHOOL DOMAINS: PROBLEM SOLVING

When frequent, escalating, or significant problems are occurring in a common school area, a setting-specific Special Situation Analysis is needed. This problem-solving process involves a data-based, functional assessment to determine why the problem is occurring, strategically linking the results to interventions and solutions that solve the problem. Described in detail in Chapter 8, this process involves seven interactive steps that result in (a) the identification, clarification, and specification of the problem concern or situation; (b) the functional assessment and analysis of why the problem is occurring; (c) the planning, preparation, and implementation of the interventions needed to resolve the problem; and (d) the evaluation of the intervention’s implementation integrity, intensity, and success. As noted above, setting-specific Special Situation Analyses focus on all five of the special situation domains, eventually identifying which ones are contributing to the identified problem.