Briefing Reports may provide all of the information needed by a teacher to effectively and successfully approach these students on the first day of school.

**Special Situation Analysis.** In April, the school discipline/PBSS committee needs to review and evaluate the special situations (see Chapters 6 and 7) that they have addressed during the current school year and those that still exist. For the former situations, the committee needs to ensure that the strategies, supports, and interventions implemented to resolve any setting- or student-specific special situations are systematically transferred to ensure their continued success into the new school year. For the latter situations, the school discipline/PBSS committee might prioritize any still-existing special situations and conduct a Special Situation Analysis on one of them prior to the end of the school year. In this way, the committee systematically articulates the school’s special situation successes from one year to the next. It also implements or prepares to implement interventions for at least one additional special situation so that it might be prevented or resolved on the first day of the new school year.

In order to accomplish both of these outcomes, a possible chronology is suggested:

1. At the March meeting of the school discipline/PBSS committee, identify the special situations that have been addressed successfully during the current school year. Ask different members of the committee to prepare their suggestions as to what needs to occur to transfer these successes systematically into the new school year.
2. At the same meeting, identify one or more special situations that continue to exist, but have not been addressed during the current year. Ask different members of the committee to prepare a discussion of these situations for the April meeting so that one of them can be chosen to address by the end of the current school year.
3. At the April meeting of the committee, hear and discuss the suggestions as to how to transfer the current special situation successes into the new school year, and agree on a specific action plan.
4. At the same meeting, decide which new special situation will be addressed before the end of the current school year, and choose the