completes a (or reviews its existing) needs assessment and resource analysis. The needs assessment expands on the data and information collected in Action 1.2 and analyzed during Action 1.3. The goal is to identify (a) what is working at high, moderate, low, and nonexistent levels relative to students’ academic and social, emotional, and behavioral outcomes; (b) what is needed, at student, staff, school, district, and community levels to maintain high successes, strengthen moderate successes, and address low and nonexistent successes; and (c) how the needs should be prioritized.

Complementing the needs assessment is a Strengths, Weaknesses, Opportunities, Threats (SWOT) analysis completed, again, at student, staff, school, district, community, and regional or state levels. This analysis identifies existing resources (e.g., personnel, time, money, materials, products, buy-in, professional development, technology, innovation) and their return-on-investment (ROI) relative to time, cost, and effort. When crosswalked with the needs assessment, this analysis specifies the existing supports available to facilitate the PBSS initiative, organizational and resource gaps to close, existing barriers to overcome, and other factors that threaten to undermine the initiative.

**Action 2.5: Completion of the Staff Resource Directory.** As part of the resource analysis, the SLT develops a questionnaire and conducts a staff “skill and expertise” analysis to determine the expertise of everyone working full-time or part-time in the school (including, for example, all part-time or consulting related services professionals or community/agency professionals or volunteers). On the questionnaire, staff share their specific areas of expertise, for example, relative to (a) curriculum and academic instruction; (b) student behavior and classroom management; (c) technology or special instructional techniques; (d) student assessment and progress monitoring; (e) strategic or intensive academic and social, emotional, or behavioral instruction or intervention techniques; and (f) other areas of expertise, including out-of-school talents, hobbies, and interests. The goal of this activity is to identify the skills and resources that already exist in a school and to make everyone in the school aware of the different people who are available to consult with others in specific areas.

All of this information is published in a staff resource directory. This resource can be posted on the shared drive of the school’s computer system,