1. Teachers (and other staff) should begin the problem-solving process (see Step 1 in the section below) as soon as they have academic or social, emotional, or behavioral concerns about a student. Early, successful intervention is important for all students when needed.
2. Teachers (and other staff) should ask for collegial support or consultative assistance whenever effective classroom instruction or behavioral management approaches have not produced expected academic or social, emotional, or behavioral outcomes and after they have implemented instructional modifications or classroom interventions, within their areas of expertise and with integrity and needed intensity, that have not helped their students to progress.
3. When needing consultative assistance, teachers (and other staff) should request the level of support (for example, a one-on-one consultation, support from the grade-level or building-level SPRINT team, respectively) that they feel is warranted by the severity of the problem (e.g., based on frequency, duration, or intensity) or the anticipated intensity or complexity of the needed services and supports.

Said differently, teachers should not implement instructional or intervention approaches in the classroom when they are unfamiliar, untrained, or inexperienced with them. Indeed, teachers should not implement unfamiliar approaches on their own simply because (a) they are embarrassed to ask for consultative assistance, (b) the school culture views these requests as a sign of incompetence, or (c) the school’s RTI² process requires teachers to implement a certain number of interventions independently even though teachers are randomly selecting these interventions and, thus, they have low probabilities of success.

These principles also reinforce the importance of accessing the level of problem-solving expertise needed for a student situation as quickly as possible. More specifically, the RTI² process is not a lockstep process. That is, students should not have to fail at the classroom and grade-level SPRINT levels of problem analysis and intervention in order to receive building-level SPRINT assessment or intervention services. If the severity of the problem or the intensity of the services warrant it—even, for example, on a student’s first day of school—then the building-level SPRINT team should be immediately involved.