this whole-school approach involves helping (a) students learn, master, and apply interpersonal, social problem-solving, conflict prevention and resolution, and emotional coping skills and interactions; (b) staff to create positive, safe, supportive, and consistent classroom climates and school settings that hold students accountable for their behavior; (c) schools to implement the strategic and intensive behavioral instruction or intervention needed to address students with nonresponsive, resistant, challenging, or extreme behavior; and (d) communities to reinforce these goals in home and other community settings. Like the academic instruction and intervention (PASS) component, this component and the PBSS are dependent on and implemented primarily in the Instructional Environment. Moreover, when students do not respond to effective social, emotional, and behavioral instruction, the data-based, functional assessment, problem-solving process is used at the student, classroom, grade, and building levels (the latter two through the early intervention School Prevention, Review, and Intervention Teams [SPRINT]; see Chapter 3) to determine why the situation is occurring and what instructional and/or intervention approaches are needed.

Ultimately, the primary goals of the PBSS are students who are socially competent and skilled in self-management; staff who can competently, confidently, and independently teach social skills and implement effective classroom-management strategies; and schools that can respond to students’ strategic and intensive social, emotional, and behavioral needs. Thus, the self-management in Positive Behavioral Self-Management occurs at three levels: student, staff, and school. The evidence-based PBSS blueprint is described more extensively later in this chapter.

6. The *parent and community training, support, and outreach* component focuses on increasing the involvement of all parents but especially the involvement of parents of at-risk, underachieving, and chronically non-performing students (Raffaele & Knoff, 1999). Unfortunately, parents in these latter three groups tend to be less involved in and supportive of the school and schooling process, and thus, parent involvement often discriminates achieving from underachieving students (Christenson, Rounds, & Franklin, 1992; Dunst, Trivette, & Johanson, 1994). Relative to the community, many schools do not use, and often are unaware of, the expertise and resources available to them. In addition, there are times when community agencies (e.g., afterschool programs) are