responding to them by completing special situation analyses linked to strategic or intensive interventions, as needed. In addition, this committee oversees the school’s crisis prevention, intervention, and response processes, and selected members are prepared to intervene when crises occur. Finally, this committee works to involve the school’s support staff (e.g., custodians, cafeteria workers, secretaries, bus drivers) in its efforts, and it reaches out to parents, community agencies, and other community leaders in a collaborative effort to extend its activities and outcomes to home and community.

## Primary Committee Goals, Objectives, and Outcomes:

1. Facilitates and tracks the implementation of the grade- and teacher-level social skills calendar and instruction at the teach, apply, and infuse level. Looks at the implementation of the social skills language and process across the school—with all instructional, administrative, and support staff—and including the appropriate and effective use by students.

2. Facilitates the development and tracks the implementation of the Behavioral Matrix and its ability to motivate and hold students accountable for appropriate and inappropriate behavior. This includes ensuring that sound behavioral response decisions are made when students exhibit Intensity 1, 2, 3, or 4 offenses; that students are appropriately referred to the SPRINT team when teachers’ use of the matrix is not changing student behavior; that the matrix is publicly available and used (e.g., through posters, in the parent handbook, through classroom management systems); that the time-out and office discipline referral process is effectively integrated into matrix activities and responses; and that positive responses, incentives, and rewards are used appropriately leading to positive classroom and school settings and environments.

3. Identifies the need for and conducts (often through a task force or subcommittee) special situation analyses to address behavioral problems in common areas of the school or as related to teasing, taunting, bullying, harassment, hazing, and fighting.