skill steps of the dealing with teasing social skill while performing the related behaviors. Thus, during teaching, teachers provide a context for and instruction in performing social skill behaviors. During modeling, teachers show how to implement the skill, verbally and behaviorally, in a simulated situation.

After a teacher models a specific social skill, students are given opportunities to role-play or act out that skill in simulated situations that are relevant both to the classroom and to the social skill itself. Over time, and when appropriate to specific skills, some role-plays will simulate conditions of emotionality so that students learn how to demonstrate their skills when they are feeling tense, pressured, fearful, excited, frustrated, or angry. Role-plays may be done in front of the class or in small or controlled group settings. The teacher, as if directing a scene from a school play, focuses on having students accurately verbalize the social skill script that is being taught and performing the corresponding behaviors during every role-play.

While students are role-playing their social skills, teachers provide performance feedback. This feedback positively reinforces students as they correctly verbalize the social skills steps and demonstrate the appropriate skill or behavior. This feedback also occurs when role-plays get off script. Here, the teacher may freeze the actors, provide corrective feedback to bring students back on script, and resume the scene so that students practice only accurate and appropriate behavior. Finally, after successfully completing a role-play, teachers provide additional performance feedback by debriefing the scene and reviewing students’ performance of the social skill script and behavior.

After the modeling, role-play, and performance feedback steps, teachers place students into as many classroom situations as possible where they need to apply or transfer the social skills training. These transfer of training opportunities simulate real-life school situations, along with the emotional conditions that may be present, so that students can experience and master their skills at a more realistic level. This step involves teachers setting up situations in the classroom that require students to apply, under controlled and supervised conditions, their new social skills. It also occurs as teachers prompt, as appropriate and needed, the use (or infusion) of different social skills during pivotal moments in the classroom.

Over time, this pedagogical process involving teaching, practice, application, and infusion helps students to understand the importance of