presenting a student of concern. The SPRINT team meets on a regularly scheduled basis (weekly is recommended) during the school day (or at least when every member of the team is present without other time constraints).

Grade- or instructional-level SPRINT teams also meet at least monthly to analyze and develop within-team approaches for student concerns that can be addressed at this level. These grade-level SPRINT teams consist of teachers who all teach at a specific grade or student group level and at least one representative from the building-level SPRINT team.

As noted in **Chapter 2** (Implementation Year 1, Semester 2, Action 2.1), everyone in the school is trained on the same functional assessment and data-based problem-solving process so that these processes consistently occur at an individual teacher, grade, or building SPRINT level. This creates a Response-to-Instruction and Intervention (RTI²) continuum where academic or behavioral information and data are collected, analyzed, and addressed similarly for all at-risk, underachieving, unresponsive, or unsuccessful students (see Knoff, 2009b, for a comprehensive discussion of SPRINT teams and RTI² processes).

As the building-level SPRINT team focuses predominantly on individual student concerns, it concurrently guides many of the school’s goals and activities that relate to the problem-solving, teaming, and consultation process component of the effective school and schooling blueprint and that are written into the annual SIP. This SPRINT team also collaborates closely with the curriculum and instruction and school discipline/PBSS committees, as these latter committees oversee the respective academic and behavioral planning, instruction, intervention, and evaluation processes at the school, grade, and student-group levels, while the building-level SPRINT team oversees these same processes at an individual student level. Indeed, there are times when the curriculum and instruction or school discipline/PBSS committee identifies specific students at their meetings—often, when reviewing group academic achievement or student discipline data, respectively—and then recommends these students into the classroom teacher, grade-, or building-level SPRINT process.

Ultimately, when students (a) do not respond to progressive instructional or intervention services, supports, strategies, or programs; (b) demonstrate serious or intense academic or behavioral difficulties; or (c) exhibit signs that a possible disability is impacting their educational progress, the building-level SPRINT team typically initiates the process