Given the fluid nature of problem solving, these questions cut across Step 2 and Step 3. Once again, because some students’ social, emotional, or behavioral problems may have academic roots, Table 8.1 presents some of the most important functional assessment questions, at this stage of the problem-solving process, in both areas. Clearly, not all of the questions are relevant to every student concern, and some essential questions may need to be added given the unique nature of some students’ challenges.

## Step 3: The Development of Hypotheses

The RTI²’s data-based, functional assessment problem-solving process basically applies the scientific method to student and other concerns. That is, the process involves generating hypotheses to explain why certain student situations are occurring, conducting assessments to confirm or reject the hypotheses, linking strategic instructional or intervention services, supports, strategies, or programs to the confirmed hypotheses, and evaluating whether the implemented approaches facilitated a positive change and/or desired outcomes.

Hypotheses, quite simply, are organized in the following format:

> “The (describe here) problem behavior is occurring because (generate hypothesis here).”

The first part of the statement is a behaviorally specific description of the student concern or the identified gap. The second part of the statement specifies the hypothesized reason for the concern or gap based on all of the information collected during the first steps of the problem-solving process. An example of a hypothesis might be, “Jason is throwing chairs because the math work is too hard for him and he gets frustrated.”

In Step 3, hypotheses are generated in up to six domains: the three domains within the Instructional Environment, and the classroom or peer, school or district, and home or community domains, respectively. Critically, hypotheses related to the Instructional Environment address reasons that tend to cause a student’s difficulties. For example, students may demonstrate poor or nonexistent social skills because (a) the school does