# A FOUR-YEAR PBSS IMPLEMENTATION BLUEPRINT

With the PBSS goals as a foundation, a four-year PBSS implementation blueprint is recommended for schools just beginning this process. Naturally, this blueprint may progress more quickly for schools (and districts) that have some elements already in place, and it might take longer for schools that need to secure resources, build capacity, or implement different elements more slowly. In the latter situation, school leaders need to recognize that a longer phase-in time might weaken momentum and motivation, especially if staff members do not see enough progress or positive outcomes over time. In the former situation, leaders should not move too quickly, putting implementation speed ahead of staff buy-in and consensus, the acquisition and deployment of resources, and the necessity for professional development and guidance.

The four-year PBSS blueprint devotes one year to planning and three years to phased-in implementation. During the planning year, activities within the blueprint involve the strategic planning and organizational analysis and development; behavioral instruction and intervention (PBSS); data management, evaluation, and accountability; and the parent and community training, support, and outreach components of the effective schools model discussed in Chapter 1. During actual implementation, all seven of the effective school and schooling components are involved. Below is an outline of the four-year PBSS planning and implementation process at the school level. Many of the actions and activities described can be adapted for use at the district level.

## THE PLANNING YEAR: PRE-IMPLEMENTATION YEAR 1

Pre-implementation Year 1 activities involve three focus areas: (a) choosing a PBSS model and evaluating staff readiness; (b) organizational readiness and planning; and (c) preparation for implementation. These activities are organized below in a loose sequence, although many of them can be coordinated and completed at the same time. The pre-implementation year