A school bus Behavioral Matrix developed by a real school is shown in Figure 6.1. Created jointly by the school discipline/PBSS committee with a representative group of their bus drivers and the district’s director of transportation, this matrix has the same structure as a classroom-focused grade-level matrix. That is, the committee explicitly identified the expected behaviors on every bus for the school, connecting them to meaningful student incentives and rewards delivered by the bus drivers themselves. The Behavioral Matrix, which was discussed and taught to all students on the first day of school by the students’ teachers and at least one bus driver, identified a continuum of increasingly more inappropriate or serious bus behaviors connected to corrective responses, consequences, or administrative actions. The corrective responses and most consequences were delivered by the bus drivers at the time or on the day when the inappropriate behavior occurred. At times, the consequences also involved a student’s classroom teacher (sometimes with his or her parents). Finally, for the most serious offenses, the school principal took responsibility after a direct referral from a bus driver and after validating the concern and the involvement of an individual student or multiple students.

As with a grade-level matrix, a common school area matrix identifies the behaviors expected of students in a specific setting and how staff will consistently respond to both appropriate and different intensity levels of inappropriate student behavior. This is especially helpful in a cafeteria when supervision often is shared by different staff members on a rotating basis, by paraprofessionals who may not command the same respect from the students as the instructional staff, or by one or two administrators who are depending on students to largely manage their own behavior. This is similarly helpful on school buses that (a) transport different age-groups of students (b) using drivers who need to develop personal relationships with students, and yet, who often feel that they lack the incentives or consequences to motivate appropriate behavior, (c) in a setting that students often do not see as the first and last school setting of their school day.

Figure 6.1 Sample of a School Bus Common School Area Behavioral Matrix