Relationships and Meaningful Instruction | 45

approach allows students to practice the kinds of group tasks that will most likely mark their future professional lives while developing their sense of empathy. When students regularly offer and request help to and from others, their capacity to do both is bound to increase.

Beginning in 6th grade, all students at our school collaborate daily for part of their math period to resolve extended problems. Initially, these group efforts take the form of simple games, but over time the tasks become more difficult, requiring students to ask one another for help and to provide it. The process can be a struggle at times, especially in cases where individual students seek to dominate the group and complete the tasks themselves. Such was the case with Josh, an 11th grade top math student who was accustomed to completing the type of work that his group faced on his own with no difficulty. Worse yet, his classmates were all too happy to let him finish the work on their behalf.

Unfortunately for Josh and his group, the structure of the end-of-unit assessment rendered their approach untenable. The test is administered over two days. On the first day, students are presented with a conventional, skills-based math test that they are to complete individually. But on the second day, the test is an extended problem-based learning task that students are to complete collaboratively. They are graded on how well they can work together productively. The final portion of the assessment requires students to provide written self-reflections; these are graded according to their level of reflective thinking, analysis, recognition of the contributions of others, and personal ownership.

People listen to my Concerns

Josh failed the first two-day assessment. Although he scored well on the first day, he scored poorly both on the