Punitive or Restorative | 13

**Suspensions and Expulsions Don’t Work**

Rates of suspension and expulsion have increased dramatically since schools began implementing zero-tolerance (ZT) policies in the mid-1990s. These policies evolved from the 1994 GunsFree Schools Act, which required districts to expel any student in possession of a weapon at school. In short order, many districts expanded the policy to cover a variety of non-weapons-related violations, including possession or use of drugs and alcohol, physical altercations, damage to school property, and multiple violations within a single academic year (Hoffman, 2014). Today, the list of offenses for which some schools have ZT policies in place includes truancy, tobacco use, and a cluster of behaviors described as “defiance.” One researcher has described the proliferation of ZT policies as “the criminalization of what many consider to be typical adolescent behavior” (Jones, 2013, p. 741). Although a focus on safety is certainly laudable, the unintended effects of ZT policies—soured school climates, higher dropout rates, and lower performance on measures of student achievement (Skiba & Rausch, 2006)—are not. Another troubling aspect of ZT policies is the fact that they disproportionately affect certain demographic subgroups of students. Black and Native American children, students with disabilities, and males of all backgrounds are overrepresented in national suspension and expulsion data (Hoffman, 2014; Jones, 2013; see Figure 1.2). If you are a black or Native American child with a disability, the likelihood that you will be suspended or expelled from school is astronomical—25 percent for boys and 20 percent for girls.

I DIDN'T LEARN  
FROM MY SUSPENSION  
I LEARNED  
FROM YOU!