Classroom Procedures and Expectations | 65

the focus of my discussions with students,” he said. “Instead of me haranguing them about what they need to do, we can talk about the goals they set for themselves. It promotes ownership, and it’s shifted my role from nagging to supporting their goals.”

**Students Want Teachers to Make Them Feel Important**

Sixth grade teacher Toni O’Leary keeps a board outside her classroom door with the heading “Student in the Spotlight.” Each day, she posts a photo of a different student taken in the first week of school along with a short, handwritten description of something the student has accomplished—usually in the form of a contribution to the classroom community, such as offering great ideas during a discussion or assisting a classmate during a task. For Ms. O’Leary, this simple procedure reminds her to recognize individuals and reflect on positive experiences. “It’s as good for me as it is for the students,” she said. “It reminds me of all the great things that happened during the day.”

**Students Want Teachers to Build on Their Interests**

One measure of how we assess relationships with others is the extent to which they know of and support our interests. Fourth grade teacher Angelina Pawelek asks all her students to complete a “help offered” survey that she designed, on which they are asked to outline areas of interest and expertise, and then posts the results for others to see. If students receive help from classmates, they are asked to leave a comment endorsing them on the posted survey. “I call it Angelina’s List,” said Ms. Pawelek. “Some students can help with throwing a football; others can help with spelling. I get to know them so much better because they identify their own interests.” By establishing a procedure that asks students about their interests and using it regularly throughout the year, Ms. Pawelek has created a channel for building relationships with her students.