12 | Better Than Carrots or Sticks

children “feel guilty, humiliated, or fearful in an attempt to get them to change their behavior” (Hall, 2013, p. 25).

Many of us have been on the receiving end of such punishments. For example, Doug recalls the time one of his high school teachers told him, in front of the whole class, that he’d only ever be able to work at a fast-food restaurant for the rest of his life; when he reacted with anger, the teacher punished him for it. For her part, Nancy can recall being spanked by her 1st grade teacher for neglecting to put her completed worksheet in the right place on the windowsill. No doubt the teachers in these two examples thought they were doing us a favor with their punishments—teaching us lessons that would stay with us in life. Decades later, the only lesson we learned was to associate these teachers’ classrooms with feelings of anger and fear.

Given the modeling with which they’re presented, it’s no surprise that many children learn to resolve problems themselves using rewards and consequences—through bullying, for instance. As educators, we invest a lot of attention in teaching students to refrain from hurting their classmates. But when we misuse our power trying to do this, we map a path for students to follow that is the opposite of what we intend. Cyberbullying is one such path that has become increasingly popular among students. Unwelcome as they are, the swift repercussions of digital cruelties have had at least one positive outcome: they have focused society’s attention on the serious damage that bullying—behavior learned from “consequences” absorbed earlier in life—can cause, no matter what form it takes. It’s becoming less common to encounter educators who associate bullying exclusively with the rites of childhood or who dismiss it as a gender-based trait (“You know how girls are,” “Boys will be boys”). Exposure to the effects of bullying behavior has led to parents and students demanding that educators intervene when it occurs. For our part as educators, we need to examine our daily interactions with students and ask ourselves whether we ourselves allow a form of bullying to occur in the name of discipline.