88 | Better Than Carrots or Sticks

implying that intelligence is innate—what Yeager and Dweck (2012) call a fixed mindset. Agency statements are not reserved for positive events. Consider the following: “I can see that you put time into practicing for the tryout, but it didn’t work out for you. Why do you think that happened, and what will you do next time?” Here, the adult lets the student know that although effort alone doesn’t guarantee the desired results, his or her resiliency will work toward attaining them.

Affective statements and questions using the word “I” allow adults to avoid labels that can negatively affect student identity and agency. We know not to say “You’re a bad person” to a student, but “You make me so angry when you do that” isn’t much better; students can hear the barely veiled shaming. By contrast, a statement such as “I felt angry when you left the classroom without permission because it embarrasses me when you’re caught roaming the halls” shifts the focus to the behavior without generalizing it as a permanent character trait. The statement follows a simple formula: “I felt [emotion] when [behavior or event] because [reason for the emotion].” The same formula can be used to address positive situations, too: “I felt so proud of all of you when you left the room in such an orderly way for the fire drill because it showed me that our practice last week was worth it.” When teachers make a habit of using statements that follow this formula, they soon hear students using similar language.

Listen  
Understand  
Repair

The students in Traci Hansen’s 3rd grade class regularly use affective statements to solve problems on their own. Ms. Hansen models using the statements until students develop their own habit. For example, when Ben tore up Alex’s paper, Alex said, “Hey, don’t do