22 | Better Than Carrots or Sticks
---

## An Invitation to Learn

Purkey and Stanley (1991) raise the question: *How do we invite students into learning?* When we invite students into learning, we engage in what the authors call “invitational education” (p. 13), which they contend rests on the following four elements:

1. **Trust** that the environment will remain safe and consistent. This means that adults and students both are good to their word and held accountable to it. In a trusting environment, we strive to be our best selves each day, but we don’t live in fear that we’ll be ostracized on days when we are less so.

2. **Respect** that is mutual and unconditional, even when members of the school community are not at their best. Respect is a fundamental belief in the dignity of every person, regardless of age or role. As educators, we’re attuned to the use of language, and we worry when people say that they “demand respect” from others. When you show respect, it in turn is shown to you.

3. **Optimism**, which is at the core of why we all go to work every day. We believe that our students can learn and that communicating that belief will result in their progress. Optimism is grounded in a realistic (but not cynical) view of circumstances.

4. **Intentionality**—the key to turning optimism into results. Simply believing in something won’t make it come true—you have to act upon it. We teach, we intervene, we reteach, we assess progress, and then we teach again. Being intentional means that we consciously implement sound practices that get results.

We can all agree that these qualities contribute to building positive relationships with students. And yet, schools are filled with students who avoid contact with their teachers. Why? We suppose the short answer is that schools are filled with human beings. Purkey and Stanley (1991) describe four distinct types of teachers (see Figure 2.1):