46 | Better Than Carrots or Sticks

group task and on his self-reflection. His parents were outraged and demanded a meeting with his teacher and an administrator. Their reaction was understandable—Josh had never failed a math test before, and his parents felt that the assessment’s emphasis on group tasks was unfair. The meeting was difficult, but the discussion shifted when one of us asked the parents about their professional lives. Josh’s mother was a surgical nurse, so she understood how critical teamwork can be. “I work with some incredibly talented doctors,” she said. “But if anyone came into the surgical theater and tried to run the show alone, the patient would die. Simple as that.”

Josh’s math teacher, Heidi Montoay, responded that although her son’s group tasks didn’t possess the same life-and-death risks that hers did, they nonetheless required him to learn the skills necessary to work with others—and, especially, to know how and when to ask for help. “Josh is always going to be a top math student,” said the teacher. “But if he doesn’t know how to channel those talents to the mutual benefit of a team or an organization, his world will be needlessly small.”

Within the year, Josh had learned to work well in groups and had grown in his ability to be self-reflective. He even discussed his experiences in his college essay. In “My Journey from Arrogance to Humbleness,” Josh wrote about his struggle with having to rely on others who didn’t know as much as he did:

> In my arrogance, I thought that meant that anyone who didn’t know what I knew was inferior to me as far as skills went. I didn’t yet appreciate that people on my team knew other things that I didn’t know. But they didn’t see me as inferior, although they would have been entitled to. It took me time and experience to understand that the person who keeps the group focused on the task, or the person who stops the discussion to ask a quiet member of the group,