80 | Better Than Carrots or Sticks

“You know, our hospital partners have entire engineering departments,” said Dominique. “Do you think you’d be interested in an internship somewhere like that?” Surprised, the student said yes.

“Well, we can ask Mr. Arnaiz to place you there,” said Dominique, “but first I think we need to talk with him.”

“Yeah, that was bad,” said the student. “But he did say my name wrong, and I’m sick of it.”

Soon after, Dominique, Mr. Arnaiz, and the student met. The student apologized and explained why he was upset. During their conversation, Mr. Arnaiz said, “I hear you. People say both my first and my last name wrong all the time. I meant you no disrespect, but you hurt my feelings when you said that we were stupid Americans. I was just trying to make sure that you were prepared for your internship so that you didn’t show up for it confused and not sure where to go.”

In the above example, Mr. Arnaiz used the following techniques that are particularly effective for de-escalating emotionally charged situations:

- Speaking in a soft, low tone
- Acknowledging and naming the student’s feelings
- Avoiding sudden movements and labeling one’s movements in advance so as not to startle the student
- Keeping hands where the student can see them (but not placing hands on the student)
- Refusing to take the student’s outburst and comments personally

Knowing how to de-escalate student behavior is a critical component of classroom management. As the adults in the school, we have to keep our egos out of it and think of how best to normalize a heated situation.