Relationships and Meaningful Instruction | 51
---

classroom job: attendance monitor. He thought that the post would help her get to know her peers. It did that—and so much more.

In general, Dianna’s behavior was fine. Perhaps she talked a bit too much to others, but she was respectful, completed her tasks, and asked a lot of very good questions. When she had a chance to share at her parent-teacher conference, she said, “They really like me here. Mr. Sandoval trusted me to do attendance. I get to check on everybody who’s here and then walk by myself to the office. Nobody trusted me like that before. Really, nobody really liked me before—and Mom, I even have *friends*.”

Wiping tears from her eyes, Dianna’s mother responded: “I didn’t know that you thought people didn’t like you. Is that why you acted out? Because you thought your teacher and the other students didn’t care about you? Oh, honey, I’m so sorry.”

Dianna’s appointment as attendance monitor allowed her to feel trusted, and it also gave her a great feeling of competence. We are reminded of a comment that Randy, a new 9th grader, made in explaining his chronic defiance: “I’d rather be bad than stupid. It’s less embarrassing.” Wow. How many students would rather be seen as bad than stupid? That is to say: how many students who are targeted for behavioral interventions really need instructional support?

It feels good to learn something. Anyone who has grappled with a thorny problem understands how amazing it feels to figure it out. We want students to feel that same sense of fulfillment, too. We don’t want to make learning easy—we want to make it possible. There is a big difference. The instruction students receive should be rigorous and attainable, and students should be given many opportunities to interact with peers as they learn new content.