28 | Better Than Carrots or Sticks

Asking students to share their knowledge in this way communicates to them that they are valued as individuals. In our years listening to students share in class, we have learned of divorces, marriages, deaths, births of new siblings, threats to personal safety, homelessness, and a host of other things that have improved our relationships with students.

Students of all ages have experiences that shape them, and knowing what they are helps teachers develop strong relationships and effective learning environments. Take, for example, 2nd grade teacher Monica Stewart. Her students were a wonderfully diverse mix, and she regularly integrated their interests and personal experiences into class discussions. However, one student troubled her. Afia refused to participate in groups, did not complete assignments, and often tore up papers that Ms. Stewart would give her. She also said rude things both to her classmates and to her teacher. But Ms. Stewart did not give up on Afia—in fact, she resolved to meet with Afia weekly to try getting to know her better. No one at school really knew Afia, and the meeting Ms. Stewart held with her parents at the start of the school year was not especially revealing.

Thank you for Sharing  
Thanks for listening  

Over several weeks, Afia began to trust Ms. Stewart. Eventually, she disclosed the horrors of war and brutality that she had witnessed in her home country of Pakistan—including the killing of her brother. Ms. Stewart took the opportunity to connect Afia with the school counselor, who in turn got her enrolled in long-term counseling. It became clear that Afia had post-traumatic stress disorder and a great deal of survivor’s guilt. When Afia’s mom heard from the school about Afia’s