Peace Building | 97

know that they are in a safe environment and have the ability to speak freely. For this reason, we would suggest including an expectation for students to listen as allies even when they are not in agreement.

Circles help students build and sustain trust with one another to solve problems together as a community. However, the community is diminished if a few students dominate the discussion. Circles should provide all students with an opportunity to speak if they want. It is critical to let students know that all voices are needed. Some teachers encourage students to respond to comments without feeling rushed but also concisely and respectfully of others.

Circles offer teachers a way to check in with students and assess their learning by listening closely to them. They should observe the conversations among students and use them as a basis for future lesson plans. For example, 5th grade teacher Yolanda Baker met with her students in an informal circle to find out how they were progressing toward completion of their first research project of the year.

“You have the science research report due in one week,” she said to her students. “I’d like to know what you’re struggling with.”

As the talking piece went around the circle, Ms. Baker took notes about her students’ responses but kept silent. When the students had all had a chance to share, she asked them to form groups based on shared concerns regarding the project.

“As you meet in your groups, see if you can build a team to support one another,” she said. “We’ll devote tomorrow morning to doing some troubleshooting together, and I’ll meet with each of the teams.”

I OWN MY MISTAKES

---
PAGE BREAK
---

98 | Better Than Carrots or Sticks

Later that same day, Ms. Baker explained her approach to us. “I could sense there was a lot of general anxiety, but rather than reteach everything, it made a lot more sense to target support where it’s needed. I’m looking forward to tomorrow, and I hope they feel more confident by the end of the day.”

Teachers should be sure not to rush the circles, as students may be more reluctant to speak than they might seem. This was the case when 6th grade teacher Kevin Naderhoff convened a circle and asked his students to name a challenge they were facing and a triumph they had enjoyed. It was the second day of school, and the students’ reluctance to speak really showed in the circle. Mr. Naderhoff realized that most of the students didn’t know one another and were hesitant to reveal themselves.

Suspecting that he had pressed his students to speak more freely than they were prepared to, Mr. Naderhoff said, “I think I asked too much of you just now. Let’s try this in a different way. Go back to your desks and interview the person sitting next to you. You’ll then introduce that person to the rest of us.”

For the next 10 minutes, students learned a bit about one another and took notes. When Mr. Naderhoff reconvened the circle, they were ready to talk. “They needed more time to prepare, and talking with one other person made identifying a challenge and a triumph easier,” he said. “I need to remember that growing this community means that I have to nurture it.”

## Impromptu Conferences

Conflicts usually occur when a combination of anxiety, frustration, and fear boils over (Morris, 1998). It follows, then, that teachers can reduce conflict by creating conditions that prevent such feelings from occurring. However, anxiety, frustration, and fear can never be completely eliminated, so students need tools for resolving minor conflicts before