104 Better Than Carrots or Sticks

and we got out of control. We’re back on our game now. We didn’t mean to disrespect you, but we did.”

Mr. Kenny accepted the apology. Then, pointing to the board, he said, “Can you work that problem and call me over if you need some help? I really want to make sure that you got this process down.”

This brief interaction resulted in the students returning to their work and attempting to repair the harm they had caused. Scolding them in front of the class or sending them to the vice principal would have taken much longer, resulted in hurt feelings, and prevented a lot of learning.

Teachers can also use impromptu conferences to discuss academic issues with students. For example, 7th grade teacher Laura Kearn held an impromptu conference with a student, Cynthia, who did poorly on a recent test. “You didn’t do very well on the science test, right?” she asked the student. “My goal is for you to learn this information. I really think it’s important, because you might be the one who figures out the next recycling program or how to reduce the garbage patch in the Pacific Ocean. Can you tell me what happened?”

“I just gave up,” said Cynthia. “I got confused on some of the words, so I just quit. I didn’t really think it was that important. I didn’t know you cared so much about this. Or me.”

“I do care about you,” said Ms. Kearn. “A lot! I care about you more than the science, and I love science. I want you to love science as much as I do. Do you want to review this with me this afternoon and then try the test again? I think you know the information because I’ve seen you work in a group. You never give up, and you help your classmates. It’s really impressive.”

Cynthia smiled. “Wow,” she said. “I knew coming to this school was different, but I never thought I’d have a teacher meet with me like this. Yes, I’ll try again. Thank you.”

Students should do a lot of the talking during conferences. To ensure that students participate in the conversation, we have developed a series of questions that teachers can use (see Figure 4.1). The questions vary based on the situation. (It’s important to remember