90 | Better Than Carrots or Sticks

Elementary teachers routinely have daily class meetings in the morning that usually involve the teacher and students greeting each other, sharing news, and conducting daily routines such as noting the weather or date. Students can use these meetings to recognize peers, raise classroom issues, and ask clarifying questions. Some teachers end each day with a second class meeting to debrief the day’s events, discuss students’ progress toward daily goals, and preview the next day’s lesson. For example, kindergarten teacher Ashlee King uses class meetings to preview the text students will be listening to the following day. “I often provide students with a question or two to ask their families to start discussion at home,” she said. “Tomorrow we’re going to be reading about the change of seasons, so today I suggested that my students ask family members to identify their favorite season and explain why they like it. These prompts give us all something to talk about the next morning.”

Class meetings build connectedness and affiliation within the group, thereby strengthening relationships that might be tested throughout the year. Grant and Davis (2012) offer the example of a 1st grade teacher who began to notice that her students were splitting off into hierarchical groups. To understand the network of relationships among her students, she privately asked each of them to name the three classmates they would like to play with at recess. She then labeled the students whose names most frequently came up as “stars” and the ones who were never named as “isolates.” For the next six weeks, she held daily class meetings to discuss topics that the students themselves suggested. When the six weeks were over, the teacher once again surveyed her students about whom they’d most like to play with at recess—and this time, no student counted as either a star or an isolate.

Often, the first thing teachers do when implementing class meetings is to ensure a consistent agenda. For example, middle school science teacher Janis Clark likes to ask her students the following questions at each meeting to focus on solving problems that the class is facing: