Classroom Procedures and Expectations | 77

## 3.6 Ricardo’s Support Plan

**Expectation:** To remain in the classroom, with the support of two breaks, during all class periods

**Cell Phone & iPod Usage:** Phone or iPod will be turned in to Ms. Matheson upon arrival to school. If Ricardo does not turn in his phone or iPod, a phone call will be made home, and he will not be allowed to bring the item to school until a meeting is held. Parents will be asked to come to school and collect the device.

**Rules for Classroom Breaks:**
- Two 5-minute breaks outside of the classroom per class period if needed.
- Ricardo will notify a staff member in the classroom, who will accompany him on his break.
- Staff will model and teach Ricardo how to take an appropriate break. Staff support during break times will decrease gradually over time.
- Ricardo will be encouraged to learn how to take his breaks inside the classroom but will still be permitted to take them outside if he desires.
- If Ricardo wishes to speak with another staff member, he may make an appointment with him or her outside of class.
- Ricardo will be required to meet with a staff member for the first half of lunch if he
  - Leaves the classroom without telling a staff member.
  - Leaves the staff member while on his break.
  - Takes more than three breaks in one period.
- Ricardo will be required to meet with a staff member during lunch for however many minutes he misses class time over his two allotted 5-minute breaks. If he needs to make up more time than is reasonable for lunch, he will meet after school with a staff member.
- It is very important to remember that one of Ricardo’s reinforcers is attention. Therefore, we must remember that if he is making up time with staff during lunch or after school, we should ensure that the time spent doing so doesn’t reinforce his bad behavior. Ricardo should not be interacting with peers or other staff members during this time. Instead, he should be completing any missed work. If he wants to discuss a problem or emotional issue, he needs to do so during a scheduled time. Only discussions pertaining to the completion of missed work and prompts as needed should take place during this time.

**Daily Reinforcement:** A daily reinforcement will be added to the plan with Ricardo’s input.

**Staff Expectations:** A staff member will be assigned to each of Ricardo’s classes every day and available to take breaks with him and join him at lunch if necessary. Assigned staff will monitor and record the number and duration of Ricardo’s breaks.