2 | Better Than Carrots or Sticks

the grade point averages of suspended students versus those who had never been suspended. She then asked the faculty whether they were building strong children or ensuring that their communities will have future broken adults in need of repair. The frank 30-minute discussion that ensued inspired the school’s staff to create a culture in which restorative practices could thrive. Over countless department meetings and informal exchanges, the staff performed yeomen’s work analyzing and redefining classroom and schoolwide practices.

Our own experience has been that while our collective hearts as educators are in the right place, we tend to make decisions based on past experience. After all, we began our on-the-job training as teachers when we were five years old. Our beliefs about school, classroom management, and discipline have been shaped by decades of experience, starting in kindergarten. What we need is an effective classroom-management system—one that we can hold onto in times of stress and strife.

## Effective Classroom Management

The term *classroom management* is confusing and misleading, mainly because it has no clear and widely agreed-upon definition. For some, the term refers to general control of students; for others, it refers to discipline procedures; for others still, it refers to both routines and procedures. Up until recently, we have avoided using the term, but we finally came across a definition we could stand behind: Cassetta and Sawyer (2013) define classroom management as being “about building relationships with students and teaching social skills along with academic skills” (p. 16), and we couldn’t agree more.

There are two aspects of an effective learning environment (and, by extension, successful classroom management): *relationships* (specifically, the range of interpersonal skills necessary to maintain healthy relationships) and *high-quality instruction*. When students have strong, trusting relationships both with the adults in the school and