40 | Better Than Carrots or Sticks

## 2.4 Sample Conversational Moves for Teachers

- Can you tell us more?
- Would you say that again?
- Can you give me another example so we can understand?
- I’d like to hear what others are thinking about ______’s comment.
- Take your time. I can see you’ve got further thoughts about this.
- Why do you think that?
- Where could we find that information you just brought up?
- I’ll restate what you just said. Listen to make sure I got it right.
- That’s a great question. Let’s pose it to the rest of the class. What do you think?

to say.” This idea reminds us of how important it is to provide all students with the support they need to express their ideas. When students don’t know how to frame their ideas linguistically, they stay silent. Support can come in the form of sentence frames, teacher modeling, word walls, audio devices, and collaboration with peers.

Ms. Codrington uses language charts and specifically focuses on vocabulary development with her 2nd grade students. She honors students by showing interest in their responses, using positive non-verbal signals, and speaking in a respectful tone of voice.

5. Group size. Whole-class discussions are often appropriate for a given learning target, but they allow for relatively few students to participate. For this reason, expert teachers use a combination of whole-class and smaller configurations of two to five students. Groups do not need to all be the same size: some students perform better with a single partner, while others work better in a larger group. However, groups over five will often crowd some students out of the discussion or self-divide into smaller groups. It’s important to match the group size both to the task at hand and to the needs of students.