Peace Building | 101

Next, Nancy would meet with both students to discuss the conflict. She found that the time the students spent drafting accomplished two important objectives: it gave both parties time to cool off, and it encouraged both to put the conflict in perspective. In most cases, the conflict was on its way to being resolved before the impromptu conference even took place. Nancy knew that her students were progressing when she overheard two boys squabbling on their way back from recess, only to hear one comment, “We better figure this out, or we’ll have to go to the peace table again!”

Writing can be of benefit for students whose emotions are running high. The process provides them with a cooling-off period during which they can gather their thoughts. Some teachers we know have transformed Jack Canfield’s (1986) Total Truth Process into a series of sentence starters to help students in conflict prepare for conversations. This process allows students to begin by expressing their anger and then progress through a series of emotions leading up to compassion and forgiveness. As Canfield notes, “The reason I call it the total truth is that often, when we’re upset, we fail to communicate all our true feelings to the person we’re upset with. We get stuck at the level of anger or pain and rarely move past it to emotional completion. As a result, it can be difficult to feel close to—or even at ease with—the other person after such an angry or painful confrontation” (p. 225). For the process to be effective, Canfield suggests that students should spend time expressing their feelings in each of the stages. Here are some possible sentence starters for each:

1. **Anger and resentment**—I’m angry that ..., I hate that ..., I’m fed up with ..., I resent ...
2. **Hurt**—It hurt me when ..., I felt sad when ..., I feel hurt that ..., I feel disappointed about ...
3. **Fear**—I was afraid that ..., I feel scared when ..., I get afraid of you when ..., I’m afraid that I ...