Creating the Mindset for Restorative Practices | 139

surveys for different purposes and intents at http://safesupportivelearning.ed.gov/topic-research/school-climate-measurement/school-climate-survey-compendium.)

Most schools have a visitor sign-in book and an early-dismissal log that can be tapped to gather data on how welcoming the school’s climate is. Figure 6.2 shows a follow-up survey that educators can use to ask visitors about their experiences on campus.

Possessing a data mindset means having a plan in place to transform information into action. Here are some suggestions for doing so effectively (James-Ward, Fisher, Frey, & Lapp, 2013):

**Start early.** The beginning of the school year is the traditional time for examining data because it’s when many state reports become available. It’s also a good idea to examine data after the first nine weeks of school to locate early trends and intervene as necessary.

**Look for links between practice and results.** As you examine the data, it’s helpful to disaggregate them by individuals, grade levels, departments, and so on—not for the purpose of assigning blame but, rather, to locate specific areas of strength and opportunities for improvement. Data teams that fail to go the extra mile to link practices and results risk diffusing their improvement efforts.

**Make the findings public and encourage speculation.** Reoccurring problems will require coordinated efforts across groups. For this reason, educators should share their data not only with faculty but with students and families as well and should invite suggestions and solutions from everyone to create a shared sense of ownership.

**Pay close attention to historically underserved subgroups.** Research shows that factors such as gender, ethnicity, disability, family income, and language can predict how often students are disciplined (e.g., The Civil Rights Project, 2000). Examining such data provides educators with a crucial lens through which to consider the application of restorative practices.

**Plan regularly scheduled dates to analyze interval data.** Businesses track data closely so that they can respond quickly to changing