108 Better Than Carrots or Sticks

The issues we discussed were humbling and sad. Our colleagues experienced some pretty awful things. One colleague spoke about being violated by someone she thought was a friend who broke into her Facebook account, posted several inappropriate comments, and sent messages that were “just plain wrong” to friends. Another colleague shared the emotional harm she had endured from a former spouse. Someone else talked about a former boss who belittled people when they made mistakes. Another talked about being bullied in middle school. All of the incidents discussed had occurred over seven years ago—in one case, 33 years ago. Clearly, none of us had resolved our issues completely, even though “justice” of some sort had been served in many cases (the abusive spouse spent time in rehab, the belittling boss was terminated for misconduct, the middle school bully was suspended). After all these years, one of our colleagues continued to ask, “What was it about me that let that person think he could harm me?” Another still wondered, “Why was I the target? What did I do? I still wish I could find out.”

Next, the facilitator asked us to ask each other the following questions:

- How did you feel?
- What questions did you want to ask the offender?
- What else did you want to say to him or her?
- Who or what could make things right for you?
- What would justice have looked like for you?

The ensuing conversations further confirmed the long-term effects of unresolved conflicts. We had to ask ourselves if we wanted our students to suffer the same fates. Our students may not go through experiences as difficult as those of our colleagues, but we still want them to attain closure following a conflict. As one of our colleagues put it, “I really just wanted an apology and maybe a commitment that it wouldn’t happen again.”