Relationships and Meaningful Instruction | 29

disclosures, she was surprised that her daughter even remembered what had occurred and gladly agreed to enrolling her in counseling.

Most of the time, the information teachers gain from talking with students is not as dramatic and life-changing as Afia’s—but when it is, it really matters. We believe that all behavior is a form of communication: students are trying to tell us something with their actions that they may not have the words to say another way. In essence, students engage in problematic behavior either to get something or to avoid something. When we understand that, we can work to figure things out and get students on the right path.

## Home Visits

Sometimes, getting students on the right path involves a home visit. Home visits allow teachers to talk with families on their own turf and build relationships with parents while furthering their relationships with students. When asked about the benefits of home visits, teachers have reported several positive effects, including “beneficial relationships and better communication with parents, more appreciation of the influence of the child’s home environment related to school performance, and a better understanding [of] the child’s behavior in school” (Meyer, Mann, & Becker, 2011, p. 191). Home visits can also help teachers to address any cultural gaps that may affect students’ behaviors or learning in school.

The California-based Parent/Teacher Home Visit Project has developed best practices for launching a sustainable home-visit program, including the following suggestions:

- Make visits voluntary for educators and parents, but seek at least 50 percent participation from a school’s staff.
- Compensate educators for their home-visit work, and train them effectively.
- Always send educators out in pairs.