112 | Better Than Carrots or Sticks

know that suspensions can provide some time for staff to develop a plan and for students to cool off a bit. That’s why it makes sense in Brandi’s case: she, her teacher, and the principal all needed some time to think about what to do next. Just as the educators had focused on applying consequences, Brandi had focused on getting better at taking objects that didn’t belong to her. Her teacher and principal hadn’t thought to ask what motivated her behavior or how she might restore the harm that she’d caused with her actions.

The plan Brandi’s teacher and principal eventually developed focused on having her face her victims and also meet with a social worker (pending her mother’s approval) to identify her motivations. Though such a plan may seem obvious in retrospect, it’s easy to think that a little punishment or a few consequences will solve a problem when you’re in the thick of it.

When Brandi met with the social worker, she told her that she didn’t understand why she wanted to take things from other students. She also talked about her parents’ separation and not getting much attention from her father of late. When the social worker analyzed Brandi’s behavior further, she noticed that Brandi consistently stole from boys’ desks and that when the boys found out they would often yell at her.

The new plan to address Brandi’s behavior included having her face her victims so she could learn how they felt when they realized she’d taken something of theirs. The plan also included set-aside time for Brandi to interact with others in a positive way, such as by reading aloud to kindergartners after finishing her tasks, as well as ongoing counseling with the social worker and her family.

## Making Peace

When implementing restorative practices, we should learn to ask, “How will the student restore damaged relationships?” rather than,