26 | Better Than Carrots or Sticks

trust they place in us. That doesn’t mean we should avoid conversations about our sorrows and joys; sharing personal information, as long as it isn’t confidential, is a great way of building relationships. The harm lies in exhibiting a poor attitude for no discernible reason. Of course there is pain in each of our lives. As we write this, Nancy’s mom is having major surgery, so she is consumed with worry—but when she shows up to work, she chooses the attitude that she will display for the learners in front of her. Given that we work at a health-focused high school, Nancy is able to talk about the issues her mom faces with several students during passing period and lunch. She doesn’t hide her worry from her students, and she lets them know that she is going to be gone from school for several days to help with the recovery period. We are not asking educators to shut all their emotions away but, rather, to carefully frame their attitudes and attendant behaviors every time they interact with students.

## Getting to Know Your Students’ Interests

It is vital for teachers to get to know their students beyond their academic profile. To this end, we encourage teachers to ask students about their interests, hobbies, aspirations, and family lives. When we humanize one another, it’s much harder to be harsh, rude, or defiant. Figure 2.2 shows a simple student interest survey that you can use to better understand your students. One 3rd grade teacher we know, Max Andrews, uses this survey with great success. Periodically, over the course of the year, he meets with students and asks them to update their entries on the survey. He then provides the surveys to the students’ 4th grade teachers, so they can have a sense of each individual student.

Teachers can also use information gleaned from the survey to make connections with individual students during lessons. For example, when Mr. Andrews’s students were studying biomes and life-forms in diverse climates and environments, he remembered that Amal had