124 | Better Than Carrots or Sticks

of outcomes. The offender can offer restitution, and the victim can accept this or ask for additional concessions from the offender. Often, students are harder on themselves than the adults would have been, so the facilitator needs to be attentive to the appropriateness of offers to restore relationships and repair harm.

The results of a victim-offender dialogue should be recorded and shared with teachers, counselors, and administrators. Sometimes the facilitator will develop a contract for students to sign before the dialogue ends. We recall the time two middle school boys got into a shoving match and were asked to sign a contract that outlined the steps they were to follow if they got angry again (“I will take 10 deep breaths when I hear something that makes me angry,” “We will lunch together for 10 days to get to know each other so that we don’t fight again”). The students themselves came up with the steps, and the facilitator simply printed copies for them to sign.

It’s important to note that victim-offender dialogues are not usually one-time events. The offender and facilitator will likely need to have several follow-up conversations to ensure that progress is going smoothly; these can simply consist of brief check-ins. The facilitator may also schedule a follow-up dialogue between the victim and the offender to ensure that there are no lingering hard feelings and that everyone has learned a lesson. We estimate that about half of all victim-offender dialogues will require a follow-up meeting of this sort. Sometimes new issues come up during these meetings that can be addressed to forestall much larger issues. For example, in one follow-up conversation to a dialogue about bullying, the victim, 8th grader Rocio, said of the offender, “She doesn’t push me in the halls anymore, but she posted on Facebook that I was cheating on my test.” This revelation led to a new victim-offender dialogue and an updated contract between the parties.

Sometimes students are hesitant to talk once a follow-up meeting starts. If this happens, the facilitator may prompt them to finish