ASCD  
1703 N. Beauregard St. • Alexandria, VA 22311-1714 USA  
Phone: 800-933-2723 or 703-578-9600 • Fax: 703-575-5400  
Website: www.ascd.org • E-mail: member@ascd.org  
Author guidelines: www.ascd.org/write  

Judy Seltz, Executive Director; Stefani Roth, Publisher; Genny Ostertag, Director, Content Acquisitions; Julie Houtz, Director, Book Editing & Production; Ernesto Vermoli, Editor; Lindsey Smith, Senior Graphic Designer; Mike Kalyan, Manager, Production Services; Cindy Stock, Production Designer; Kelly Marshall, Production Specialist  

Copyright © 2015 ASCD. All rights reserved. It is illegal to reproduce copies of this work in print or electronic format (including reproductions displayed on a secure intranet or stored in a retrieval system or other electronic storage device from which copies can be made or displayed) without the prior written permission of the publisher. By purchasing only authorized electronic or print editions and not participating in or encouraging piracy of copyrighted materials, you support the rights of authors and publishers. Readers who wish to reproduce or republish excerpts of this work in print or electronic format may do so for a small fee by contacting the Copyright Clearance Center (CCC), 222 Rosewood Dr., Danvers, MA 01923, USA (phone: 978-750-8400; fax: 978-646-8600; web: www.copyright.com). To inquire about site licensing options or any other reuse, contact ASCD Permissions at www.ascd.org/permissions, or permissions@ascd.org, or 703-575-5749. For a list of vendors authorized to license ASCD e-books to institutions, see www.ascd.org/epubs. Send translation inquiries to translations@ascd.org.  

All referenced trademarks are the property of their respective owners.  

All web links in this book are correct as of the publication date below but may have become inactive or otherwise modified since that time. If you notice a deactivated or changed link, please e-mail books@ascd.org with the words “Link Update” in the subject line. In your message, please specify the web link, the book title, and the page number on which the link appears.  

PAPERBACK ISBN: 978-1-4166-2062-4  
ASCD product #116005  
Quantity discounts: 10–49, 10%; 50+, 15%; 1,000+, special discounts (e-mail programteam@ascd.org or call 800-933-2723, ext. 5773, or 703-575-5773). Also available in e-book formats. For desk copies, go to www.ascd.org/deskcopy.  

ASCD Member Book No. FY15-12A (Aug. 2015 P). Member books mail to Premium (P), Select (S), and Institutional Plus (I+) members on this schedule: Jan, PSI+; Feb, P; Apr, PSI+; May, P; Jul, PSI+; Aug, P; Sep, PSI+; Nov, PSI+; Dec, P. For details, see www.ascd.org/membership and www.ascd.org/memberbooks.  

**Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data**  
Smith, Dominique.  
Better than carrots or sticks : restorative practices for positive classroom management / Dominique Smith, Douglas Fisher, Nancy Frey.  
pages cm  
Includes bibliographical references and index.  
ISBN 978-1-4166-2062-4 (pbk. : alk. paper) 1. Classroom management. 2. Peace—Study and teaching. 3. School discipline. 4. Restorative justice. I. Fisher, Douglas, 1965– II. Frey, Nancy, 1959– III. Title.  
LB3013.S596 2015  
371.102'4—dc23  
2015017563  

23 22 21 20 19 18 17 16 15 14  
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12