92 | Better Than Carrots or Sticks

The Old Business portion of Mr. Matapang’s meetings is kept brief. Discussions during the New Business portion are based on written suggestions that students add to a box on the corner of Mr. Matapang’s desk. Topic suggestions range from seating arrangements to stressful assignments to plans for field studies. Sometimes students will suggest discussing major events in the community, as was recently the case when a student from a neighboring school was killed while street racing.

If there is time, the meeting continues with the Shout-Outs portion, during which students publicly thank, recognize, or compliment others. One example from Mr. Matapang’s class is when Kareem said to Marcello, “I was having a hard time with my mom dying, and I really want to thank you for having my back. I owe you big time. I will never forget.” We find this to be an especially powerful part of class meetings once students become comfortable with complimenting one another, as it builds community and allegiance to one another and the school. When students recognize each other, they like school better and tend to behave in ways that are respectful toward the community, resulting in safe, productive learning (Landau & Gathercoal, 2000).

Sometimes teachers worry that they won’t be able to cover all of their lessons if they devote time to class meetings and other informal restorative practices activities. Our experience suggests that class meetings ensure that learning is really happening throughout the day. Informal processes allow students’ worries and fears to be addressed so that they can focus on the lessons during instructional time. An investment in class meetings can result in a peaceful classroom climate where learning, both social and academic, flourishes.

## Informal Classroom Circles

The use of circles to facilitate discussion is arguably the most distinctive element of restorative practices. Unlike class meetings, during