Relationships and Meaningful Instruction | 35

“So, let’s read this book again,” said Ms. Herrera, “but this time we’ll be looking for evidence of how Duncan responds to the issues that each crayon raises. When we have finished reading and collecting evidence, we will each write a letter back to a crayon letting it know whether or not Duncan has solved its problem. If the answer is yes, we can describe how Duncan solved the problem in the letter. Isn’t that good practice? To write letters when we can help resolve a problem?”

The few minutes that Ms. Herrera spent introducing the lesson prepared her students by inviting them into an engaging learning experience. Because the students were invested in figuring out how Duncan responded to the crayons, they paid close attention to the text—and, in so doing, did not misbehave. The lesson was interesting and relevant, so students did what Ms. Herrera asked of them.

We’ve come to believe that purpose-driven instruction is a student rights issue: we think that students have the fundamental right to know what they’re expected to learn, why they’re expected to learn it, and how they will be expected to demonstrate their understanding. It’s not sufficient to simply write these beliefs on the board and leave them there; they should drive the learning experience for students and teachers. In addition to helping improve student achievement, clear learning targets are likely to garner student interest, thus focusing their attention on the lesson rather than any potential misbehavior.

Consider the following two sample statements for guiding student learning:

1. SWBAT calculate and graph exponential decay over time.

I CAN LEARN FROM MY MISTAKES