Classroom Procedures and Expectations | 71

whether behaviors warrant immediate or deferred intervention and possible responses.

Sometimes teachers need to examine ongoing problematic behaviors and see if they can help students to adopt prosocial behaviors instead. In these cases, teachers might use the more formal process of functional behavioral analysis (Alberto & Troutman, 2012). Although a full exploration of functional behavioral analysis is beyond the scope of this book, it’s worth noting some useful elements of the process. One such element is the scatterplot (see Figure 3.3), which educators can use to identify patterns related to a behavior. The grid might be divided into 10-, 15-, or 20-minute intervals or even longer ones if the problematic behavior isn’t that frequent. Scatterplots are useful for identifying the frequency and the severity of behaviors and can be used to assess the effectiveness of behavior support plans.

One limitation inherent to scatterplots is that they don’t provide any information about antecedents or consequences. For that reason, people often combine them with a tool that allows for the documentation of observable behavior (see Figure 3.4). For example, when analyzing the spitting behavior of one of her 1st grade students, a teacher noticed that the student tended to spit at his classmates when they were ignoring him. The teacher decided to focus her efforts on teaching the student how to gain his classmates’ attention rather than on punishing him for engaging in the behavior.

It’s often useful to ask students directly about their behavior, as they might not realize that it is a cause for concern or might have interesting insights into it. Figure 3.5 shows a sample survey that teachers can use to glean useful information from students about their behavior.

Once teachers have collected sufficient data related to student misbehaviors, they can review the data for patterns and recommendations. If educators aren’t sure about the function of a behavior or how best to address it, they might consider employing the following sentence frames: