128 Better Than Carrots or Sticks

We learned that he had held the door and served as lookout while another student stole the tablets out of an unlocked classroom after school. When confronted by a suspicious teacher, he said he had heard about the crime and offered some false leads. He only admitted his role in the theft after the police were called.

Drew assumed that he would be expelled from school for his behavior, but he wanted to offer a public apology to school staff and repair relationships as best as he could. Dominique suggested to Drew’s teacher that they convene a high-stakes conference, and she agreed. Drew suggested that they include Doug in the conference, as he felt that he had seriously damaged their previously trusting relationship, as well as a teacher who agreed to be an advocate for him. An open chair was placed in the center of the circle for anyone who wished to talk directly to Drew.

WE Believe  
THANKS  
IN YOU!

The conference lasted 90 minutes. Drew offered his apologies, took ownership of his actions, and listened to staff members as they stated their feelings about the incident. Dominique served as the facilitator and regulated the discussion as needed. For instance, when one staff member became visibly angry and began shouting at Drew, Dominique interceded and restated the norms. Another member of the restorative practices team escorted the angry teacher out of the room and met with her privately so that she could cool down before rejoining the group. Upon returning, she once again sat down in the open chair, apologized for her earlier