148 | Better Than Carrots or Sticks

believe that effective processes for engaging students have the following three key elements:

1. They are proactive. Processes should focus on students’ communication, collaboration, and problem-solving skills using a strength-based approach, and educators should identify and enact an early warning system to locate students who need more intensive supports.

2. They are systematic. Clear guidelines and principles should be in place to govern student interventions.

3. They are transparent. Everyone with a stake in the organization, including students, families, and other community members, understands the process and has a voice in refining and customizing it.

## Student Voices: “I Have Hope, and a Plan to Get Where I’m Going, Because People Cared About Me”

Gallup, the news and polling agency, is in the business of acquiring and analyzing opinion data that help us to detect patterns and locate trends. In a 2014 release, Gallup Inc. reported survey results finding that student engagement declined with each grade level—a disturbing trend to be sure. But the report offered reasons to celebrate as well. Students who strongly agreed with the statements “My school is committed to building the strengths of each student” and “I have at least one teacher who makes me excited about the future” were nearly 30 times as likely as their peers to be engaged in their school. Gallup also reported that teachers had a direct influence on the degree to which students felt hopeful about their futures. What’s more, one-third of students surveyed “who scored highly on all three dimensions that the assessment measures: hope, engagement, and well-being … were classified as success-ready” (p. 3).