Punitive or Restorative | 5

to discuss both curriculum-related topics (e.g., the role of genocide and war in a World History class) and noncurricular issues that bear discussing (e.g., how students might manage stress on the eve of a major state exam).

**Individual conferences to address problematic behavior.** We’ll explore the details of these high-stakes meetings in greater detail further in the book, but for now know that restorative practices are not about letting things go or ignoring when harm has been done. Individual conferences require intense preparation on the part of the victim(s), the perpetrator(s), witnesses to the conflict, and anyone else who’s been affected by it. In some cases, conferences involve two sets of parents or guardians who are very much at odds with each other: it’s common for the offender’s family to lobby for mercy and for the victim’s family to demand retribution. To ensure that conferences run smoothly, it is crucial to engage with families preventively, before crises occur.

**The criminal justice system.** In a small number of cases, the criminal justice system will play an important part in a restorative approach to student discipline. We have found that strong ties to our local police department and juvenile justice system have enhanced our ability to play a meaningful role in the lives of adjudicated youth, allowing us to partner with families and the courts to positively affect students’ lives. In fact, many youth court systems follow the restorative approach to justice, which mandates therapeutic interventions over retributive ones. We have personally been fortunate to work with skilled police and youth probation officers who have received formal training in restorative practices.

**Teaching Rather than Punishing**  
Traditional school discipline practices are considered separate from the academic mission of the school. By contrast, *restorative practices* are interwoven into every interaction in the building. At your