Punitive or Restorative | 15

undercut our own efforts to boost attendance. Research shows that regular school attendance in the early grades is an excellent predictor of 3rd and 5th grade reading levels (Chang & Romero, 2008) and that a student’s 9th grade attendance levels can predict whether or not he or she will graduate high school (Roderick, Kelley-Kemple, Johnson, & Beechum, 2014).

When we speak of chronic absences (defined as missing more than 10 percent of the school year), how often do we consider the extent to which existing discipline policies have made the problem worse? According to Skiba (2000), 95 percent of out-of-school suspensions are for nonviolent infractions such as chronic tardiness or “willful defiance.” Every child and adult has a right to feel safe and secure in school, but instituting banishments for minor infractions doesn’t contribute to the well-being of anyone involved, prevents learning from occurring, and compromises the school climate.

The negative effects of suspension and expulsion are not limited to students who directly receive the punishment. In a large-scale study of exclusionary discipline practices, Perry and Morris (2014) found that “higher levels of exclusionary discipline within schools over time generate collateral damage, negatively affecting the academic achievement of nonsuspended students in punitive contexts” (p. 1067). In other words, when schools rely on exclusionary disciplinary policies, the achievement of all students is negatively affected.

## Building a Strong School Climate Through Restorative Practices

We all understand the need for safe schools—not only physically but psychologically as well. Too often, exchanges in schools serve to tear people down—think of the girl who is shunned in the lunchroom by students she thought were friends or the boy receiving anonymous messages on social media urging him to harm himself. As adults, we