Peacemaking | 121

A few weeks after the circle had been convened, we heard from Ms. Hamilton. “I wouldn’t say the problem has disappeared, but it has certainly decreased,” she said. “The witness circle Mr. Lopez led shined a light on a problem we needed to address as a class. I’m starting to hear kids call each other on the language they’re using—it’s not just me anymore.”

The purpose of witness circles is not to come up with a solution to a problem but, rather, to show students that the problem affects more than just the students who are immediately involved. Witness circles can move students to feel more accountable to their classmates and recognize their responsibility as witnesses to harmful behavior.

## Victim-Offender Dialogue

Victim-offender dialogue works best for addressing conflicts among small groups of students rather than classwide issues. Facilitators should be neutral and possess the following attributes:

- Empathy
- Emotional intelligence
- Interpersonal skills (especially active listening, negotiating, problem solving, and communicating both verbally and nonverbally)
- Cognitive skills (especially paying attention, auditory processing, and reasoning)

The heat of the moment when emotions are high is not the best time to convene a victim-offender dialogue. As Mullet (2014) reminds us, the parties should be given time to unwind first. It is very important for the facilitator to meet with the individuals involved in advance to assess their motivations and gather facts about the situation. We have found the sets of questions developed by Costello, Wachtel, and Wachtel (2009) to be particularly effective during these initial