58 | Better Than Carrots or Sticks
---

## Teaching and Reteaching Procedures

Once established, rules and supporting procedures need to be taught and, from time to time, retaught. For example, elementary teachers might need to regularly model such tasks as sharpening pencils correctly or joining classroom conversations. Whenever teachers see students forgetting the procedures or challenging their interpretation of them, it’s time for reteaching.

The first day back after a long school holiday is a good time to revisit procedures with students. It’s also a good time to revise any procedures that no longer suit the students due to changes in the classroom climate. It is wise to schedule periodic checks for understanding of procedures and to ask students for feedback on their efficacy.

## The Value of High and Consistent Expectations

In a classic experiment, teachers were given the names of students who, they were told, were likely to do better than their classmates due to their high IQ scores. In truth, the student names had been selected at random. At the end of the study, all the students were tested again, and the results were striking: the students who had been randomly identified as having higher IQ scores all now did, in fact, score higher than their peers (Rosenthal & Jacobson, 1968). Clearly, teacher expectations of what students can achieve make an enormous difference. Over the past five decades, researchers have continued exploring the effects of teacher expectations on student achievement and have found that, though they are modest overall, the effects are more significant and long-lasting for students who are poor, from minority groups, or already struggling as learners (McKown & Weinstein, 2008).

Another study that showed the long-term effects of teacher expectations on achievement tracked 1,000 low-income students from birth