Peacemaking 131

request for the teacher to call over a trusted adult if the students feel anxious. (At our school, teachers will send an instant message via their phones or laptops to the staff member that a student requests.) In other cases, the lifeline may be a trusted classmate.

**Schedule short follow-up intervals and adhere to them.** Checking in with students once or twice a day after they’ve returned from an imposed absence can help to anchor their days and gives students a safety valve to let off steam.

**Close the loop with the adults involved so that they can more effectively respond to students’ emotions.** Teachers may have unrealistic expectations for students who have been removed from the instructional flow, assuming that they’ll be able to pick right up where they left off. Educators in charge of students’ reentry plans should escort their students back to class on their return so that they can apprise teachers both of the students’ current state of mind and of the commitments that they’ve made.

**Arrange an end-of-day check-in.** These types of follow-ups can provide students with just the excuse they need to peel away from friends who might otherwise escalate their misbehavior. They also give educators one more opportunity to provide students with guidance and positive affirmations.

**Implement the follow-up plan.** Long-term change can only be realized when students are able to truly reflect on the harm they’ve caused and what they have learned since. We are not suggesting that students be forced to dwell on the past forever, but regular follow-up conversations following a major event can reduce reoccurrence and build stronger relationships between students and adults.

**Student Voices: “I Became a Better Me”**

Impromptu conferences, circles, and high-stakes conferences have a cumulative effect: together, they lead students to discover who they