76 | Better Than Carrots or Sticks

* When the behavior occurs, it is usually in the context of __________ and preceded by __________ trigger(s).  
* The student’s response to the trigger(s) is to __________ (describe the behavior).  
* The result of the behavior is usually __________, which serves to __________ (describe the need that the behavior meets).  
* The function of the behavior is likely to be __________.  
* The behavior appears to be a __________ (describe the skill deficit or performance deficit) because __________.  

One team of middle school teachers used sentence frames to determine how to respond to a student who frequently left the class. Ricardo was allowed to take self-initiated breaks as part of his individualized education plan, but he was abusing the privilege. His teachers’ immediate reaction was to discontinue his breaks altogether, but this only led to a wider range of misbehaviors on Ricardo’s part, from verbal outbursts to crying under the table to insulting classmates. When the teachers analyzed the problem further, they came to realize that Ricardo needed the breaks but that they had not made their expectations clear to him. They also realized that Ricardo often used the breaks to gain the attention of certain staff members. (Ricardo likes to share the drama in his life with others and often tells the same story over and over.)  

As part of their plan, the teachers decided to limit Ricardo’s breaks and to schedule time for him to meet with the adults of his choice so that he could talk with them (see Figure 3.6). Within three weeks of implementing the plan, Ricardo was no longer exploiting his breaks from class. He met with the staff member of his choosing each day and had his or her undivided attention. Best of all, his performance in class improved, reducing his stress and his need to talk about getting bad grades.