Relationships and Meaningful Instruction | 39

- The evidence I use to support _______ is _______.
- I believe _______ (statement) because _______ (justification).
- I know that _______ is _______ because _______.
- Based on _______, I think _______.
- Based upon _______, my hypothesis is _______.

Other teachers use the accountable talk strategy to teach students about the habits of classroom talk (Michaels et al., 2010). Three expectations frame this approach:

1. Accountability to the learning community as a fully engaged participant,
2. Accountability for using the most accurate information available, and
3. Accountability for using reasoning, logic, and evidence in discussions.

The teacher’s role in accountable talk is vital and involves more than simply posing questions. Instead, the teacher acts as facilitator, intentionally using conversational moves that keep the dialogue going. For example, a teacher might mark the conversation for others by saying, “Did everyone hear that comment? Would you mind saying it again so we can talk about your idea more?” (Additional useful conversational moves can be found in Figure 2.4.)

Ms. Jacobs has spent the year fostering productive argumentation in her 10th grade classroom. She often has the students arrange their chairs in a large circle to ensure that the students’ full attention is on each speaker and that everyone gets a turn to contribute. For example, Ms. Miller’s students sit in a circle to discuss their ideas about social media, providing evidence of their assertions to their peers and to their teacher in keeping with the principles of accountable talk.

4. Language support. In the disability community, there is a saying: “Not being able to speak is not the same as not having anything