102 | Better Than Carrots or Sticks

4. **Remorse, regret, and accountability**—I’m sorry that ..., Please forgive me for ..., I’m sorry for ..., I didn’t mean to ...
5. **Want**—All I ever wanted was ..., I want you to ..., I wanted ..., I deserve ...
6. **Love, compassion, forgiveness, and appreciation**—I understand that ..., I appreciate ..., I love you for ..., I forgive you for ..., Thank you for ...

Teacher Don Bragg used these sentence starters to prepare two 7th grade girls for a discussion about a dispute about a group work assignment. He placed the two students in different corners of the classroom and had them articulate their feelings in writing. Here’s what Melody wrote:

> I’m angry that you didn’t finish the part of the group presentation you said you’d have done today. I was hurt because you didn’t act like you even cared, because you just laughed it off. I’m afraid that I am going to get a bad grade because you didn’t do your part of the work. I didn’t mean to insult you by calling you a bitch. I just want you to keep your promises. I understand that you’re my friend, but when you don’t keep your word it makes it hard to be your friend.

And here’s Vanessa’s statement:

> I’m angry that you swore at me and called me a bad word. I was hurt because we promised that we would never disrespect each other this way. I’m afraid that you are fed up with me and will stop being friends. I didn’t mean to let you down with the project. I forgot it was due today. I want you to tell me when you’re mad but not get so nasty. That’s not what BFFs do. I understand that I put you in a bad place and I’m sorry.