Relationships and Meaningful Instruction | 43

inappropriate social pressure; preventing, managing, and resolving interpersonal conflict; and seeking help when needed  
5. **Responsible decision making**: Making decisions based on consideration of ethical standards, safety concerns, appropriate social norms, respect for others, and likely consequences of various actions; applying decision-making skills to academic and social situations; and contributing to the well-being of one’s school and community (Payton et al., 2008, p. 6)  

CASEL performed a meta-analysis of more than 300 studies of social and emotional learning programs involving nearly 325,000 K–8 students. The findings were astounding: Children with access to social and emotional learning programs had gains averaging 11 to 17 percentile points higher than those who did not. Even better, CASEL found that the programs studied were effectively implemented by school staff rather than outsiders, “suggesting that these interventions can be incorporated into routine educational practice” (Payton et al., 2008, p. 7).  

At the heart of what all of us do is a mission to foster every child’s social and emotional development, two key elements of which are empathy and self-regulation. The climate we create for students can enhance or inhibit the development of these traits as well as students’ academic learning.  

## Empathy  

Empathy is the ability to accurately identify the emotional states of others and respond to them with care and concern. Although our experiences certainly contribute to our development of it, young children are as capable of empathy as anyone else. Everyone has witnessed toddlers comforting other toddlers who are upset. Teachers of young children give them the language with which to name feelings and teach them the desired prosocial actions.  

We previously discussed Ms. Herrera’s lesson on *The Day the Crayons Quit* to her kindergarten class. To help develop her students’