Classroom Procedures and Expectations | 63

I give the students at each table a gavel, then I ask them to speculate as to where the mistake occurred and why; when they think they’ve got an answer, they bang the gavel and announce, ‘Order in the court!’ They then share their argument with the rest of us, after which we weigh in with our opinions.”

## Students Want Teachers to Nurture Their Self-Respect

Few strategies are more effective at improving student behaviors than providing them with leadership roles. Wise teachers actively look for ways to give students responsibility. Elementary teachers often have job assignments in place that rotate each week, such as materials manager or table captain. High school teachers ensure that opportunities to take responsibility abound (selecting books off of a recommended reading list in English, for example, or proposing a research topic in biology class). Giving students “choice and voice” helps them to continually conceptualize who they are as people.

Preschool teacher Ms. Moreno selects a different student to highlight each week as her “kid of the week.” The student and his or her family choose a handful of photographs and meaningful objects, which Ms. Moreno then mounts in a shadow box along with facts about the student (e.g., birthday, favorite color, the names of any siblings or pets). The student then shares his or her story with the class and answers any questions. “All children need chances to tell others about themselves, and this gets others asking questions,” said Ms. Moreno. “I don’t need them to share possessions. I’d much rather have them see that their most valuable possession is themselves.”

## Students Want Teachers to Show Them That They Can Make a Difference

Charitable acts outside the classroom can help to build community among students and teachers. These can take many forms, from random acts of kindness to fund-raising efforts, blood drives, and