Peace Building 105

### 4.1 Sample Questions and Statements for Impromptu Conferences

**For conferences with individual students who are struggling behaviorally or academically:**  
1. How do you describe yourself?  
2. How do other people describe you?  
3. What assumptions do teachers make about you that are not true?  
4. How would you like others to describe you?  
5. Let’s make a plan to get you where you want to be.  

**For conferences with individual students who are doing well:**  
1. How do you describe yourself?  
2. What assumptions do teachers make about you that are not true?  
3. What are we doing that is helping you reach your goals?  
4. What should we be doing more or less of to help you reach your goals?  
5. Let’s make a plan to get you where you want to be.  

**For discussing what students want to be:**  
1. What do you like to do, and can that be a career?  
2. How do people who do that for a living prepare for this career?  
3. Let’s find out what you need to do in middle school/high school to put you on that path.  
4. Are you on track to reach this goal?  
5. Let’s make a plan to reach your goals.  

**For discussing who students want to be:**  
1. When do you feel proud of yourself, inside or outside of school?  
2. Why did you feel that way?  
3. What obstacles did you overcome, and how did you do it?  
4. What obstacle is holding you back right now?  
5. Could some of those same strategies you used to overcome obstacles be used in this situation?  
6. Let’s make a plan to overcome that obstacle. I bet you’re already feeling proud of yourself for tackling this.