Punitive or Restorative 3

with their peers, and when their lessons are interesting and relevant, it’s harder for them to misbehave.

We don’t expect an effective classroom-management system to eliminate all problematic behavior any more than we expect a new set of standards to raise all students’ scores by leaps and bounds on the first try. Students are going to misbehave as they learn and grow—it’s how we respond to their misbehavior that matters. We believe that students should have a chance to learn from their mistakes and to restore any damaged relationships with others. Our view is known as the restorative approach to discipline. The table in Figure 1.1, developed by the San Francisco Unified School District, illustrates

### 1.1 Traditional Versus Restorative Approach to Discipline

**Traditional Approach**  
- Schools and rules are violated.  
- Justice focuses on establishing guilt.  
- Accountability is defined as punishment.  
- Justice is directed at the offender; the victim is ignored.  
- Rules and intent outweigh the outcome.  
- No opportunity is offered for the offender to express remorse or make amends.  

**Restorative Approach**  
- People and relationships are violated.  
- Justice identifies needs and obligations.  
- Accountability is defined as understanding the effects of the offense and repairing any harm.  
- The offender, victim, and school all have direct roles in the justice process.  
- Offenders are held responsible for their behavior, repairing any harm they’ve caused and working toward a positive outcome.  
- Opportunities are offered for offenders to express remorse or make amends.  

Source: Adapted from San Francisco Unified School District. (n.d.). Restorative practices whole-school implementation guide (p. 19). San Francisco, CA: Author.