Punitive or Restorative | 11

## Shame and Humiliation Don’t Work

At any moment in any class, a student may become inattentive or distracted and need to be reengaged. When you have 30 people or more in the same room, order is continuously established, lost, and restored again. People who are not educators marvel at teachers’ ability to turn dozens of children into a cohesive unit. When the class is really rolling, we recognize that we’re teaching with a sense of urgency that our students share.

Of course, things can and will go wrong—our brief attempt at redirecting an inattentive student won’t work, or students will refuse to follow our clear directions. Being human, we might find ourselves lapsing into sarcasm or speaking more harshly than necessary. For a minority of teachers, responding in this way becomes an unfortunate habit, turning them into “the mean teachers” whom students know to avoid lest they be run roughshod over. These are the teachers whose students are often lined up near the playground fence because they’ve been docked a few minutes of recess for misbehaving—a public humiliation reminiscent of the pillory in medieval town squares. Perhaps you count such teachers as colleagues—and perhaps you disagree with their approach to discipline but feel that it’s not your place to say anything. Unfortunately, the actions of a single teacher can negatively affect an entire school’s climate: not only is the use of shame and humiliation to punish students toxic, but it’s also highly infectious, spreading through a grade level or department at an alarming rate.

To be clear, we don’t believe that teachers who use shame and humiliation as tools are intent on crushing the spirits of their students; we simply believe that they’ve mistakenly bought into the conventional wisdom that exalts punishment as an effective means of altering behavior. We are not talking here about necessary corrective discipline but, rather, of punishments specifically intended to make