Relationships and Meaningful Instruction | 25

Salvador with eyes the color of caterpillar, Salvador of the crooked hair and crooked teeth, Salvador whose name the teacher cannot remember, is a boy who is no one’s friend, runs along somewhere in that vague direction where homes are the color of bad weather, lives behind a raw wood doorway, shakes the sleepy brothers awake, ties their shoes, combs their hair with water, feeds them milk and corn flakes from a tin cup in the dim dark of the morning. (p. 10)

Poor, friendless Salvador is clearly not important enough for the teacher to know his name. We can all imagine how much he’ll end up achieving in life—and how different his fortunes could be if his teacher only got to know him.

Salvador is fictional, but Joseph Assof (pronounced *ace-off*) is not. Mr. Assof is a high school math teacher. On the first day of school every year, he tells his students that he will know all of their names by the end of the first week—and that if there are any names he can’t remember, those lucky students are free to pronounce his name any way they want. It’s never come to that, though, because Mr. Assof always remembers everyone’s names—and his students respect him for that. Though he will have to do a lot to maintain the relationships that he initiates every year with his opening bet, his efforts at learning students’ names communicate to them that he values and understands them as individuals. As Qualia and Corso (2014) note, students can usually tell that adults who use fillers such as *sweetie*, *honey*, or *sir* have probably forgotten their names—and they expect that those who care about them will remember.

**Bringing the Right Attitude to School**

In addition to knowing students’ names, teachers must choose what attitude they’ll bring with them to school each day. Students can tell when the adults around them are in a bad mood. When they notice snide comments and sarcasm, their observations risk damaging the