Relationships and Meaningful Instruction | 27

### 2.2 Student Interest Survey

1. When people want to know about ______, they ask you.
2. When you have an hour of time to yourself, and you don’t have to do chores or homework, what do you like to do?
3. Imagine you have one week to travel for free anywhere in the world. Where would you go, and what would you do while you were there?
4. Let’s say you have a time machine. What time and place in history would you choose to visit, and why?
5. If you had $25 to spend on anything, what would it be, and why?
6. What do you hope we do this year in our classroom?
7. Please rank yourself on a scale of 1 (I need lots of help) to 10 (this is a personal strength) on the following academic skills. This will help me be a better teacher for you.  
    - ______ Spelling  
    - ______ Reading assignments  
    - ______ Grammar  
    - ______ Researching a topic  
    - ______ Writing about experiences  
    - ______ Working in a group  
    - ______ Writing about information  
    - ______ Leading a group  
    - ______ Argumentation writing  
    - ______ Working independently  
    - ______ Class discussions  
    - ______ Presentations  
8. Last question: If someone wrote a book about your life, what would the title be?

previously lived in the desert and invited her to share what she knew about life-forms there. Mr. Andrews also recalled that Hector had visited Florida and was very excited to talk about the swamp tour that he went on with his grandparents, so he asked him to share as well.