96 | Better Than Carrots or Sticks

## Inside-Outside Circles

At our school, we refer to these as “speed dating” circles. Like fishbowls, inside-outside circles include a small circle encircled by a larger one, but in this case students in the inner circle face out and partner with a student from the larger circle. At the teacher’s prompt, the partners talk about a topic for a few minutes. Then, at another prompt, students in the inner circle rotate clockwise, so that all eventually work together.

Ninth grade teacher Sarah Soriano coordinates inside-outside circles that include her students and 11th and 12th grade members of a mentorship program known as the Connect Crew. Mentors occupy the inner circle and spend a few minutes engaged in social conversation with each 9th grader in the outer circle. After the freshmen have met all the mentors, they complete an online survey listing the three mentors they’d prefer to have. Each of the Connect Crew mentors then receives a caseload of 9th graders to check in with regularly. According to Ms. Soriano, the mentors serve as effective advocates for students with whom teachers can consult.

Kindergarten teacher David Leong uses inside-outside circles during mathematics instruction. “Number sense is huge in kindergarten, as is completing one-digit addition under 10,” he said. “All the students have a few counting cubes in their hands and a pencil and paper. Each set of partners has to figure out how many cubes they have in total and then write it as an equation.”

“They’re not used to completing tasks this quickly,” he added, “but the inside-outside circles help them to increase their fluency in counting and addition.”

## Tips for Running Informal Circles

Teachers need to communicate their expectations about the use of circles clearly to all students and go over them every time circles are employed. For informal circles to be effective, students must