Relationships and Meaningful Instruction | 41

The best way to form groups, though not perfect, is alternative ranking: Using a recent assessment, teachers rank students in order of performance, cut the list at the midpoint, place the two lists side by side, and create groups that span both lists. For example, in a class of 34 students, the first group might include students ranked 1, 2, 18, and 19; the next group might include students ranked 3, 4, 20, and 21; and the third group might consist only of the students ranked 5 and 22. Using this strategy ensures a great deal of academic diversity in each group. Groups can be re-formed every four to six weeks based on new assessment information that has been collected.

Ms. Jacbox arranges her 6th grade students into pairs, triads, and foursomes. Some students need to be in smaller groups because they have difficulty managing too many social relationships during a discussion. Ms. Miles has purposefully organized her students into groups to maximize their interactions and to ensure that they support one another in accomplishing their tasks.

## 6. Teacher’s role.

The teacher has an important role in both whole-class and small-group discussions. As we have noted, carefully listening to students is essential for guiding their future understanding. Rather than simply giving students information, teachers should question, prompt, and cue their thinking. They should also be aware that their comments will either enhance students’ senses of self—their self-esteem, agency, and identity—or damage them. As Johnston, Ivey, and Faulkner (2011) note, “The language we use with children influences, among other things, who they think they are, what they think they’re doing, the relationships they have with others, the strategic information available to them in the classroom, and the possibilities available to them for thinking about literacy and their own lives” (p. 232).

Ms. Codrington is thoughtful in her interactions with her 2nd graders. She wants to encourage them to keep talking and to take pride in their deepening understanding. She rephrases their responses and