Peacemaking | 113

“What are the consequences for the student’s actions?” Restorative plans should ask offending students to
- Acknowledge their behavior.
- Apologize.
- Express repentance.
- Commit not to repeat the offense.
- Offer to make amends.

These requirements are a far cry from the types of consequences normally found in schools. They have the potential to permanently change students’ future behaviors by developing their internal control mechanisms and empathy toward others (Curwin & Mendler, 1997).

Restorative practices must be about reintegration, not marginalization. Offending students need to return to their regular environment as soon as possible so that relationships can be repaired and academic learning can continue. As Braithwaite (1989) notes, offenders who cannot restore the relationships they’ve damaged will often develop new relationships with fellow offenders who are similarly alienated. These new relationships can devolve into a subculture of wrongdoers who see no need to comply with the rules, much less develop positive habits and relationships with people who do.

We are reminded of Cody, an 11th grader who had been caught smoking marijuana at lunch—it was his first time trying the drug. In many schools, Cody would have been suspended and marginalized, which runs the risk of shifting Cody’s allegiance from adults and positive peer role models to students who will lead him further astray. But having a conversation with a student who is under the influence of drugs wouldn’t be productive either, so the school called his parents, informed them of the situation, and asked them to pick him up and supervise him for the rest of the day. A meeting was scheduled for the following day to let Cody know that his choice to use drugs was not