134 | Better Than Carrots or Sticks

expected or welcome, we tend to be greeted by name and with a smile, asked how we’re doing, and kindly directed to our destination. Welcoming schools do exactly the same thing.

When ensuring a welcoming mindset, educators should pay special attention to
- The front office,
- Adult points of contact,
- Onboarding of new students and staff, and
- Obstacles to creating a positive environment.

## The Front Office

First and foremost, schools need to exude a welcoming atmosphere that is felt by every child and adult in the school. Because the front desk serves as the first point of contact for anyone entering the school, it is especially important in this regard. In many schools, the people working at the front desk are charged with managing a host of processes: screening visitors, answering parents’ questions, directing sick children to the nurse’s office, and so on. Little wonder that workers often become swamped by such duties and find themselves with little time left for greeting visitors at the counter.

We’ve renamed the front office manager at our school the concierge because she oversees how visitors, students, families, and teachers are greeted. On days when we expect scheduled visitors, she posts a welcome sign greeting them by name. Our concierge shows student workers how to extend proper greetings and escort visitors to their destinations. When parents or community members show up unannounced, she offers them a comfortable seat before working on a way to accommodate their requests.

## Adult Points of Contact

To further create a welcoming environment, we ensure that adults are present in places where students tend to congregate or where