Peace Building | 91

- What is the problem our class is having?
- Why is this a problem?
- How does the problem make you feel?
- What can we do about the problem? Let’s brainstorm solutions.
- What is our best solution?

High school English teacher Eric Matapang employs the same generic agenda for every meeting:

1. Call to Order
2. Encouragement Circle
3. Old Business
4. New Business
5. Shout-Outs
6. Close Meeting

Mr. Matapang’s students engage in class meetings at least twice a week. One of his students, Leandro, explained to us the value that the meetings held for him: “We know that there will always be a time to talk about stuff, so we can focus on the class at the other times. Like, once, I really didn’t understand a big project, but I didn’t stress because I knew that we had a meeting the next day and I could ask then. It’s just good to have time to talk as a group.”

“It kinda feels like we’ve grown up,” added Leandro’s classmate Marisol. “We have to handle things on our own, we have to make decisions, and we have to respect each other so that we can all be heard and make good decisions.”

During the Encouragement Circle portion of the meetings, each student turns to the person on his or her left and offers an encouraging statement related to the other’s success, thus helping to build a growth mindset (Dweck, 2006). For example, one student might say to another, “I saw you helping the new kid with annotations in physics class. That made me want to be a better person, too.”