66 | Better Than Carrots or Sticks

---

## Students Want Teachers to Tap Their Creativity

Sixth grade science teacher Ellen Wainwright posts a weekly “Problem of the Week” on a bulletin board in her classroom, along with piles of sticky notes and pencils for students to use in solving the problem. Problems may be relatively large (e.g., reducing the carbon footprint of our school) or small (e.g., figuring out the best way for the teacher to collect and return student papers). At the end of each week, Ms. Wainwright goes over the students’ ideas with the whole class.

“I want to make sure my students see other people’s ideas, because these inspire new thoughts,” she told us. “I enjoy the fact that I can positively profile students, and I know they enjoy the attention. I’m amazed at how creative they can get!”

## Students Want Teachers to Bring Out the Best in Them

It is a given that students will disappoint us and themselves from time to time, some more often than others. We often respond by lecturing students, but that approach is rarely effective. (Nancy’s 2nd grade grandson was lectured for disrupting class one day; when his parents later asked him what the teacher had told him, he answered, “I don’t know, but it was a lot of sentences.”) Better to start by saying to a student, “That’s not the [name of student] I know. What’s happening?” In this way, we acknowledge the problematic behavior without conflating it with a character flaw and invite the student to lead the conversation.

## The Value of Analyzing Problematic Behavior

When problematic behaviors arise, the worst possible time to consider how to respond is in the moment, yet too often that’s exactly what happens. We find ourselves reacting in anger and scolding students, who then bury their heads in their arms and remain that way for the rest of the lesson. Or perhaps we choose to ignore the problem altogether because we’re tired, it’s 2:37 p.m. on a Friday, and we’ve