14 | Better Than Carrots or Sticks

As the data in Figure 1.2 show, even preschool children are being suspended from schools. It’s hard for us to imagine what violations three- and four-year-olds might commit that would warrant an extended removal from the learning environment. Many caring administrators have expressed frustration at board policies that require them to mete out such harsh punishments; their professional training has taught them to see the child first—to respond in ways that teach, not punish. Policies that mandate exclusionary punishments rob educators of the ability to make child- and family-centered decisions.

More than anyone, teachers understand how vital it is for students to be present in class each day. When we suspend and expel, we

### 1.2 Suspension and Expulsion Data Released by the U.S. Department of Education Office for Civil Rights in 2014

- Black students are three times more likely to be suspended or expelled than white students.
- Females of color (black, Native American, and Native Alaskan) are suspended at a rate of 12 percent, compared to 2 percent for white girls.
- Students with disabilities represent 12 percent of the school-age population, but comprise 58 percent of students placed in seclusion and 75 percent of those who are physically restrained.
- Black children represent 18 percent of preschool enrollment, but 48 percent of preschool children receiving more than one out-of-school suspension. By contrast, white students represent 43 percent of preschool enrollment, but only 26 percent of preschool children receiving more than one out-of-school suspension.
- Boys represent 54 percent of preschool enrollment, but 79 percent of preschool children suspended once and 82 percent of those suspended multiple times.

Source: U.S. Department of Education Office for Civil Rights. (2014). Civil rights data collection: Data snapshot: School discipline. Available at: http://www2.ed.gov/about/offices/list/ocr/docs/crdc-discipline-snapshot.pdf