60 | Better Than Carrots or Sticks

sharing, each student places his or her notecard in the jar. Mr. Reyes uses these notes to plan conversations with students the following week. “When I have a student who isn’t being his best self, I pull his note from the Success Jar to remind him of what he did the previous week,” he told us. “It’s a reminder to both of us, I suppose, about what he is doing to actively engage in his own learning.”

We refer to the middle school students at our school as *scholars*. Students are taught the meaning of the word during the first week of school—a learned person, an intellectual. They are addressed as English scholars, health scholars, art scholars, science scholars, history scholars, and math scholars, and throughout the day they hear the language of high expectations. Students each have an individual Scholastic Plan, for which they meet once a quarter with teachers to set goals: improving their grades, making honor roll, clearing any incompletes, and so on.

The teachers at Sunset Cliffs Elementary School have a set of expectations in place called SPARK, which stands for
- Safe,
- Productive,
- Always responsible,
- Respectful, and
- Kind.

These expectations, for which the teachers develop rubrics and indicators, are evident in classrooms, the lunchroom, playgrounds, and even the restroom (where “being responsible” would include washing one’s hands and flushing the toilet, for example). Maintaining clear expectations and using the same language schoolwide allows the teachers at Sunset Cliffs to guide students’ behaviors and counsel them when they don’t meet expectations. As one 1st grade teacher said, “It’s just a lot easier to let students know what you expect up