32 | Better Than Carrots or Sticks

---

her ways that they might better prepare students for the class. Over the next couple of weeks, the teacher got to know Savannah and took much of her advice to heart. Although she wasn’t one of Savannah’s teachers at school, she ended up making a big difference in her life.

On superintendent Joel Pedersen’s blog (https://joelped33.wordpress.com), he argues that every student needs just a single person to care for him or her in order for his or her life to change forever. He even created the hashtag #oneperson to spread the idea. We appreciate the advice that Pedersen offers on his blog, including the following exercise:

1. Hang a picture of every student in your building in the gym.
2. Leave space under each student’s picture for staff to write down anything personal (but not private) that they know about him or her.
3. After staff members have made their contributions, start a dialogue with them. What do you notice about what you know about each student? Is every student in a supportive relationship with at least one adult at school?
4. Create a shared plan to make sure that every student has at least #oneperson on staff with whom he or she feels a connection.
5. Be that #oneperson for a student.

As the saying goes, “To the world you may be one person; but to one person you may be the world.” Or as Piglet says of love in *Winnie-the-Pooh*, “You don’t spell it . . . you feel it.” Students know when they are loved and can tell when they’re just being tolerated.

## Quality, Meaningful Instruction

Relationships are critical, but they only go so far. Just because students feel valued and important doesn’t necessarily mean that they will behave in class, especially if instruction is boring or ineffective.