Peace Building | 99

they erupt into major incidences. Working as facilitators, teachers can convene impromptu conferences to help students resolve situations that threaten their relationships and disrupt their learning.

When teachers see conflict brewing, they should resist the temptation to simply issue a command (“Knock it off now”), because the command doesn’t teach the students anything. Instead, we suggest promoting communication between the two parties. Here’s an example:

**Teacher:** I just saw the two of you pushing one another out of the line. I got worried that you could hurt one another. What’s happening?

**Student 1:** I was here first, and he cut in front of me.

**Teacher:** [To student 2] How would you describe the situation?

**Student 2:** I was here before him, but then I was talking to Justin and I lost my place. He took it.

**Teacher:** It makes me kind of afraid when I see students pushing each other in the cafeteria line. How does it make each of you feel when you see that happening with other students?

**Student 2:** Like I have to fight to get into the line.

**Student 1:** The same. And like I won’t get a turn.

**Teacher:** I agree. I think it makes the little ones believe that they have to fight to get into line. That’s not something I want them to believe. I know you have younger brothers and sisters at this school. What do you want them to learn?

**Student 1:** That they don’t have to fight, ’cause the cafeteria’s not gonna run out of food.

**Student 2:** [giggling] Unless it’s bean-and-cheese burrito day!

**Teacher:** It seems like the two of you agree on lots of things. Can you solve this?

**Student 1:** Go ahead and go in front of me. It’s teriyaki beef dippers today.

Impromptu conferences are one way to resolve conflicts quickly before they get any bigger. Along the way, students develop skills