Peace Building | 95

frequently as they care to. Thus, students who are truly engaged in the topic have more time to speak in depth about it.

Eighth grade health teacher Julia Stephens-Martin held a non-sequential circle to discuss an upcoming school board decision regarding the sale of snacks and drinks at fund-raisers. Some students argued that snack and drink sales were necessary to support extracurricular activities and clubs; others argued that the school shouldn’t sanction the sale of items that don’t meet the district’s nutrition requirements. “I’m not sure they came to any consensus through this circle,” said Ms. Stephens-Martin, “but I was really pleased with how they listened respectfully to opposing views. I wish all meetings were conducted so civilly.”

## Fishbowls

These types of circles are particularly effective for skill building and for discussing sensitive topics that require careful listening. The fishbowl strategy uses two circles: one small inner circle surrounded by a larger observing circle. Students in the inner circle discuss a topic, while those in the outside circle observe and take notes. In some cases, membership in the inner and outer circles remains constant throughout the duration of the circle; in other cases, students are invited to exit the inner circle when they have finished talking, leaving an open chair for a member of the outer circle to take.

At the beginning of the school year, 6th grade science teacher Rosa Vasquez invited six students from the year before to model the use of fishbowl circles for her current students. The inner circle of 7th graders discussed the merits of recycling and whether or not homeowners should be fined for not doing it, and the observing circle of 6th graders took notes. Over time, and with practice, the students in Ms. Vasquez’s class learned how to engage in this type of interaction and used it for a variety of academic and nonacademic conversations.