Creating the Mindset for Restorative Practices 145

Students like Doug’s high flyer come to expect that they aren’t wanted around, and such a negative self-concept takes a toll. As W. E. B. Du Bois pointedly asked in *The Souls of Black Folk* (1903), “How does it feel to be a problem?” (p. 1).

## A Preventative Mindset

Too often, we find ourselves trying to resolve a crisis the moment it arises. Anticipating crises can reduce their impact and accelerate our responsiveness to students, faculty, and families.

Cyberbullying is an area of particular concern that requires a preventative mindset. With increasing regularity, responsive schools are anticipating the problem and addressing it directly in the curriculum. Many police departments, child advocacy agencies, and professional organizations provide valuable materials about cyberbullying that teachers can share with their students. In screening the materials, teachers should consider the following questions:

- Are they developmentally appropriate?
- Are they part of a continuing series?
- Do they teach students through examples and link to the harmful effects of cyberbullying?
- Do they include strategies students can use to protect themselves online?
- Do they suggest what students should do if they are victims of cyberbullying?
- Do they suggest what students should do if they observe cyberbullying behavior?
- Do they address the consequences that cyberbullies should face?

Another way to hone a preventative mindset is to instill awareness about sensitive issues among staff. For example, we require all