Peacemaking | 111

We have to learn to focus on restitution rather than consequences. We have to remember that punishments only work when students get caught. In such cases, they’ll focus on what to do next time to avoid detection rather than reflect and learn from the experience. Students will alter their behavior to avoid being punished, not because they have developed an internal locus of control or a moral compass.

Brandi, a 3rd grader, often steals things from the desks of other students. Her teacher and then her principal have used a progressive discipline policy with her, escalating consequences with every offense: a scolding the first time, then sending her to the office, and, finally, suspending her.

At the suspension meeting, Brandi’s mother was shocked by her daughter’s behavior. “Why are you stealing things?” she asked. “You have all of those things! Kids in your class don’t like you because you’re a thief. And they’re going to tease you. I didn’t raise a thief. I’m so angry at you! You little thief.”

Observing the mother’s outburst, the principal realized that his disciplinary approach wasn’t working.

“I think we need some time to create a new plan,” said the principal to Brandi’s mom. “We’ve been focused on trying to get Brandi’s behavior to stop by applying consequences. Maybe we need to try something else. Maybe you could take Brandi home today and talk more about why she is compelled to take things. I don’t think you raised a thief, but I do think we need to get to the bottom of why Brandi is doing this.”

I'm HOME

As we have noted before, we’re not totally opposed to suspension in specific cases. We just don’t see it as a learning opportunity for students. We