Peacemaking 129

reaction, and shared the feelings of betrayal that she felt because she had previously advocated on his behalf.

It is important to note what Drew’s meeting did *not* accomplish. The goal of this high-stakes conference was not to identify a plan for restitution but to allow the offender to apologize and members of the community to voice their hurt. Looking back, we’re not sure how many adults would be willing to subject themselves to what Drew faced. It isn’t easy for a 16-year-old to sit before disappointed and hurt adults who cared deeply about him and hear them share their feelings of betrayal. To his credit, Drew didn’t offer excuses or attempt to deflect blame onto others.

We all left the meeting feeling emotionally exhausted. But the meeting also proved to be a turning point for us as a school community. Over the course of the next several weeks, we worked with law enforcement, Drew’s family, and the school board to determine next steps. In time, we decided that he would not face expulsion but would be placed on probation. Drew has had to continue to regain the trust of the staff, but we don’t doubt that the high-stakes conference was life-changing for him.

## Reentry Plans

The purpose of reentry plans is for students to reenter the learning community with minimal disruption after having to leave class to cool off or be suspended altogether after misbehaving. For example, let’s assume that two students in the same class have a fight and are sent to the principal’s office. A reentry plan for these students needs to ensure that they both feel welcomed when they return to class. Without a clear plan in place, the students may be labeled as bullies or wimps by their classmates, which is an obstacle to restoration. In this case, the facilitator may convene a formal classroom circle to allow people to express their feelings about classmates fighting in