6 | Better Than Carrots or Sticks

school, is a specific administrator assigned to disciplinary matters? This might be the principal, vice principal, or dean of students. Ask a few students at your school, “Where do kids go when they misbehave?” If you keep hearing a specific person’s name—or worse, a specific practice (e.g., “Kids go home ’cause they get suspended”)—then you know that your school is pursuing a traditional approach to discipline. If this is the case, it’s time for a change.

It’s far too common in schools for educators to wait for discipline problems to emerge and then handle them on a case-by-case basis. Such an approach leaves adults exhausted and children with limited skills development. We don’t leave the acquisition of reading or mathematics skills to chance; we engage in explicit, systematic, and intentional instruction to ensure that learners progress academically. So why wouldn’t we do the same to ensure that students progress socially and emotionally? The social and emotional development of students is often poorly articulated in schools—relegated to an assembly and a few accompanying lessons. Traditional tools for addressing behavioral issues among students—rewards and consequences, shame and humiliation, suspensions and expulsions—run counter to a restorative culture and do not result in lasting change, much less a productive learning environment.

## Rewards and Consequences Don’t Work

Right now you may be thinking to yourself: I’ve got a whole list of *rewards and consequences* in place to manage behavior. To be sure, nearly every classroom-management book will have a section devoted to the use of *rewards and consequences*. But there’s one problem: *Rewards and consequences don’t work*—or at least, they don’t teach. They may result in short-term changes, but in reality they promote compliance and little else.