130 Better Than Carrots or Sticks

general. Alternatively, he or she may spend a few minutes outlining any agreements the fighting students have reached and asking for the rest of the class’s help in supporting their commitments.

Regardless of the amount of time students have missed, they will find themselves having to reintegrate into the instructional flow of the classroom. The return of a student can be marked with high emotions, and reactions from classmates can trigger further problematic behavior from the student. You have undoubtedly witnessed this: a student returns from the principal’s office, and classmates immediately ask, “Did you get in trouble?” Having to relive the event all over again is painful for the student and can undo all of the restorative work that has been invested.

Here are the key steps to take when forming a reentry plan for students.

**Rehearse with the student.** Discuss with the student how he or she might respond to different scenarios upon returning to the learning environment. (We have found that returning to lunch or recess can be especially difficult, as student conversations aren’t as closely monitored.) We like to practice using phrases such as “It’s OK now” or “It’s over now” with students to answer prying questions from classmates. If students are reentering a classroom after an absence, have them vocally commit to staying there and provide them with actionable feedback and restatements so they can hear their plan again (“So I heard you say that when you’re back in Mr. Ford’s classroom, you expect there will be some small-group work to do. You stated that you plan to move into the group quietly and follow someone else’s lead. That’s a good plan.”).

**Identify a lifeline, if needed.** Students returning to class or school from an emotionally charged event may find themselves more anxious or uneasy than expected. In such cases, educators should work with them to identify a “lifeline” they might use in case they need to take a short break upon their return. This might be as simple as a quiet