References 153

Kohn, A. (2010). How to create nonreaders: Reflections on motivation, learn-
ing, and sharing power. English Journal, 100(1), 16–22.

Landau, B. M., & Gathercoal, P. (2000). Creating peaceful classrooms: Judi-
cious discipline and class meetings. Phi Delta Kappan, 81(6), 450–454.

Leachman, G., & Victor, D. (2003). Student-led class meetings. Educational
Leadership, 60(6), 64–68.

Lee, H. (1960/2002). To kill a mockingbird. New York: Harper Perennial.

Losen, D. J., Martinez, T. E., & Okelola, V. (2014). Keeping California’s kids
in school: Fewer students of color missing school for minor misbehavior.
The Center for Civil Rights Remedies. Available: http://civilrightsproject
.ucla.edu/resources/projects/center-for-civil-rights-remedies/school-
to-prison-folder/summary-reports/keeping-californias-kids-in-school
/WithChange.pdf

Lovato, C., Watts, A., Brown, K., Lee, D., Sabiston, C., Nykiforuk, C., & Thomp-
son, M. (2013). School and community predictors of smoking: A longitudi-
nal study of Canadian high schools. American Journal of Public Health,
103(2), 362–368.

McKown, C., & Weinstein, R. (2008). Teacher expectations, classroom context,
and the achievement gap. Journal of School Psychology, 46(3), 235–261.

Meyer, J., Mann, M., & Becker, J. (2011). A five-year follow-up: Teachers’
perceptions of the benefits of home visits for early elementary children.
Early Childhood Education Journal, 39(3), 191–196.

Michaels, S., O’Connor, M. C., Hall, M. W., & Resnick, L. B. (2010). Accountable
talk sourcebook: For classroom conversation that works. Pittsburgh, PA:
University of Pittsburgh Institute for Learning.

Moberly, D. A., Waddle, J. L., & Duff, R. E. (2005). The use of rewards and
punishment in early childhood classrooms. Journal of Early Childhood
Teacher Education, 25, 359–366.

Morgan, E., Salomon, N., Plotkin, M., & Cohen, R. (2014). The school discipline
consensus report: Strategies from the field to keep students engaged in
school and out of the juvenile justice system. New York: Council of State
Governments Justice Center.

Morris, R. C. (1998). Conflict: Theory must inform reality. Kappa Delta Pi
Record, 35(1), 14–17.

Mullet, J. H. (2014). Restorative discipline: From getting even to getting well.
Children and Schools, 36(3), 157–162.

New Mexico Public Education Department, Quality Assurance Bureau. (2010).
Addressing student behavior: A guide for all educators. Author: Santa Fe.
Available: http://www.ped.state.nm.us

Payton, J. W., Weissberg, R. P., Durlak, J. A., Dymnicki, A. B., Taylor, R. D.,
Schellinger, K. B., & Pachan, M. (2008). The positive impact of social and