136 Better Than Carrots or Sticks

staff members can only assume their job responsibilities after at least two days of onboarding experiences.

**Obstacles to Creating a Positive Environment**

Sometimes extensive security measures can get in the way of creating a welcoming atmosphere. Although such measures as metal detectors, a campus police presence, student identification badges, and surveillance cameras are meant to inspire a sense of safety in students, one study of their use in schools shows that they can result in more rather than less strife (Bracy, 2011). Many of the students in the study said that they thought administrators implemented school measures simply to flex their power rather than to further student well-being. They also reported that educators focused much more on preventing misbehavior and punishing violators than on recognizing positive behaviors among students.

Administrators at high-security schools need to be intentional about placing staff in areas where they can greet students and visitors warmly. Handshakes, smiles, and pats on the back can go a long way to countering negative perceptions of intrusive security measures. If security guards or police officers are present, they too should help to create a welcoming environment. Many police officers are trained in community policing and understand the benefits of building positive relationships. School resource officers and similar personnel can and should be recruited to act as mentors to students, facilitate police athletic events, and serve as members of school committees (Morgan et al., 2014).

**Data Mindset**

Information about how a school is doing is all around us; we just need to be intentional about locating, analyzing, and leveraging it for school improvement. The data come in two forms: *quantitative* (the hard data