Relationships and Meaningful Instruction | 47

“What do you think?” knows how to do something I don’t. I learned from my classmates that mathematics isn’t only about the numbers, formulas, and algorithms. Without other people who make me stop and consider an idea that had never occurred to me, my own learning is thwarted.

Though Josh never truly came to love the daily collaborative work and assessments in his math classes, he did learn to appreciate that the helping behaviors his teachers insisted that he learn were useful to him. We can only surmise that his family’s willingness to support his teachers and use examples from their own lives helped immeasurably.

## Self-Regulated Learning

We want and need our students to be able to draw on an internal compass that helps them make sound decisions. A self-regulating child will suppress impulsive behaviors, delay gratification, and think about alternatives to and consequences for his or her actions whether or not an adult is nearby.

Consider all the behavior problems you have faced in your career. How many of them would you chalk up to students’ lack of impulse control? How many were due to their inability to think through their actions before committing to them? How many occurred because an adult wasn’t close by to stop the students from acting out? When students can’t self-regulate, problems are likely to follow.

In order for students to develop self-regulation skills, they need experience making choices. Unfortunately, some schools are in the business of issuing mandates that reduce choice in an effort to curtail misbehavior. The result is often the opposite of the one desired, with misbehavior erupting as soon as a teacher steps out into the hallway. Though we certainly believe that clear and consistent rules and expectations are vital, we also recognize that rules are really mutually