Creating the Mindset for Restorative Practices | 147

The entire faculty stands in a circle around the perimeter of the room. After a preliminary discussion of logistics and scheduling, the principal turns our attention to spotlighting students. It is at this time that our informal interdisciplinary teams emerge.

Here is an example. One morning, a 10th grade teacher expressed concern about a 12th grade girl whose behavior seemed to be regressing. Within moments, two 12th grade teachers mentioned that they’d already made plans to meet with her for a private lunch, an 11th grade teacher reported on a discussion she’d had with the girl after school the day before, and the girl’s athletics coach shared his intention to talk with her on the bus ride home from the next game. None of the adults disclosed any information about the student’s difficulties at the meeting, but they were able to identify coworkers to strategize with afterward.

The kinship we feel when we look our professional colleagues in the eye every morning is powerful. Importantly, it strengthens our belief that problematic situations are best addressed through coordinated efforts among staff. Quite frankly, we can’t imagine not having a morning meeting each day. Without it, we don’t believe we’d be the school we are today.

We know that it’s not possible for every school to replicate our morning routine. For some larger schools, it would be impossible to fit all staff into a single room. But what about holding several simultaneous morning meetings? Teachers could be divided up by grade level rather than department for a different perspective. (We should note that our morning meetings are in lieu of faculty meetings, so our staff meet together for a total of 50 minutes a week.)

Although knowing that students are disengaged, feel hopeless about their futures, and do not report daily positive experiences is deeply troubling, the good news is that we as educators possess the power to change these numbers. What if educators made an intentional effort, coordinated across the school or district, to do so? We