Creating the Mindset for Restorative Practices 135

there’s a lot of foot traffic so that they can greet whomever they see. In fact, we have available administrators staff a small desk in a central location of our school to greet tardy students in the first 15 minutes of the school day. We can tell you these interactions are invaluable. We start by greeting the students, then ask why they are late, and finally let them know that we’re glad they are at school. In addition to further reinforcing positive relationships with students, these short conversations help us to distinguish those who are chronically late from the others.

**Onboarding New Students and Staff**

It took several years for us to realize that students who enroll after the first week of school miss out on a pivotal culture-building period. Nowadays we offer a daylong onboarding experience for such students. On their first day in school, they spend time with a variety of adults and students touring the premises, learning about the school’s mission, and asking any questions they may have about logistics. In the afternoon, they sit in on at least two classes and take notes about their observations, which they later discuss in a circle with available staff members as well as student leaders. At the end of the day, the new students receive their class schedules. We feel that this onboarding experience helps students to orient themselves, get a feel for the climate, and begin to establish relationships with adults in the school.

We follow a similar onboarding process with new staff members. Regardless of their job responsibilities, new personnel are required to tour the entire school, sit in on classes, and meet with administrators and student representatives. During this process, they also meet with the school’s IT team to register passwords, equipment, keys, and so forth. New teachers are required to spend their second day of onboarding observing their assigned students in various classes to get an idea of how they conduct themselves throughout the day. New