Peace Building | 93

which students might sit on a rug or at their desks, circles consist of chairs arranged facing inward, without desks or tables to serve as visual or psychological barriers. This physical arrangement primes students to expect a high level of interaction, including listening. Off-task behaviors decrease significantly in circle arrangements, perhaps due to students’ senses of increased accountability to the group (Rosenfield, Lambert, & Black, 1985). Informal circles are intended to allow students to answer truthfully and honestly to questions or prompts.

For resolving conflicts, we encourage the use of formal circles (discussed further in Chapter 5). We learned this lesson during the first year that we adopted restorative practices: without intending to, the only times we used circles were to resolve conflicts—and within a month, students equated “circling up” (dragging their chairs to the center of the room) with disciplinary action of some sort. Dominique soon discovered that the moment he walked into a classroom to facilitate a circle, students would ask one another, “Who did something wrong?” In due course, we came to understand that students need informal circles to discuss issues unrelated to conflicts.

One well-known version of the informal circles strategy is the Socratic seminar, in which participants delve into a topic, text, or issue of study. For example, a high school English class might employ a Socratic seminar to discuss the trial and death of Tom Robinson and the relative culpability of other characters in *To Kill a Mockingbird* (Lee, 1960/2002). Similarly, a 4th grade classroom might use a Socratic seminar to examine the development of Bud’s personal rules about lying in *Bud, Not Buddy* (Curtis, 2004). Types of informal circles include sequential and nonsequential circles, fishbowls, and inside-outside circles (Costello et al., 2010).

**Sequential Circles**

Sequential circles have a fixed order for member participation, and each student is encouraged to participate. This type of circle can help