Classroom Procedures and Expectations | 67

decided we’ll just wait it out and think about it again next week (of course, we never do).

Behavior is how we communicate our wants and needs to the world; we use facial expressions, movement, and words to convey how we are processing all the information that’s coming at us. Our students’ brains are busy at work determining what they should pay attention to and what they should filter out: “There’s sound coming from the hallway—can I ignore it? The teacher is talking and pointing to something on the whiteboard—should I look over there?”

## The ABCs of Behavior

As educators, we should seek to recognize *patterns* of behavior so that we can correctly anticipate students’ actions. If a student misbehaves in one class but not in another, he or she is waiting for us to notice the pattern. Unfortunately, we are rarely able to devote our full attention to analyzing the behaviors of a single student. It’s vital to understand that what happens before and after a given behavior is just as important as the behavior itself. This chain of events is known as the ABCs of behavior: the antecedents to the behavior, the behavior itself, and the consequences of the behavior.

Antecedents are the events that trigger a certain behavior. Sometimes they take time to develop into the behavior: For example, Andrew might get into an altercation at school because he’s still angry about an argument he had with his parents the night before. This is known as a slow trigger. Fast triggers are events that occur immediately preceding a certain behavior and as such are usually more apparent than slow triggers: For example, Tomás insults Andrew at the lunch table, and Andrew responds by swearing and taking a swing at Tomás. In this case, the conventional response would be to suspend both students for three days—but what if Andrew is also having a delayed reaction to a fight with his parents at home? Suspension is a woefully inadequate consequence that doesn’t get to