Relationships and Meaningful Instruction | 37
---

makes a powerful contribution to student learning and is valuable for many instructional purposes: exploring new concepts, eliciting evidence of student understanding, and promoting deeper student engagement” (p. 79).

Creating a classroom driven by discussion rather than distraction requires thoughtful planning and well-honed procedures. We have found the following six considerations to be especially important for creating classrooms in which student-to-student interactions prevail.

1. **Meaningful and complex tasks.** It almost goes without saying, but students need to understand the purpose of the task on which they’re working. If they don’t, they’ll probably lose interest and talk about other things. Importantly, the purpose of an assignment should never be merely to complete it but, rather, to learn something. Tasks should be relevant to students, and students should know exactly how their assignments relate to their learning goals. Tasks should also be sufficiently complex to garner students’ attention and effort. Complex tasks invite students to talk with each other more often, trying to figure out how to solve the challenge at hand.

    In Jeff Bonine’s 10th grade biology class, students pair up to complete a word sort identifying the relationships among different vocabulary terms. As they struggle through the task, Mr. Bonine supplies additional information, such as the meaning of *autotroph* and *heterotroph*, to keep students focused on the task.

2. **Joint attention to tasks and materials.** When students work collaboratively, it’s important to monitor both their verbal and non-verbal interactions—the ways in which they point, lean in, hold their bodies, and stick together. These behavioral cues tell us that students are interacting well. To teach students how to interact properly, teachers can use video clips of students modeling the expected behaviors. When showing such clips, teachers should pause and replay the video at significant moments and discuss the value of the observed behaviors. Over time and with practice, students will begin