Classroom Procedures and Expectations | 69

three-day suspension works to his advantage. But it’s possible that Andrew could have escaped his troubles in a less damaging way. A trusted adult might have offered him an emotionally safe space to vent, for example, which could have prevented the eventual fight with Tomás. Even if the fight had not been prevented, the consequences could have been different, perhaps focused more on encouraging restorative practices between the two boys that might equip them both with constructive tools to deal with their frustrations.

Here’s a less dramatic example of the ABCs in action. Nancy was in a classroom with a first-year teacher who didn’t know how to deal with three 4th grade students who kept getting up from their seats and being disruptive. The students weren’t mean-spirited, and their classmates didn’t seem bothered by what they were doing, but the teacher was frustrated at having to repeatedly redirect them. The teacher knew that confrontation would likely escalate the situation, but he wasn’t sure what he should do. Nancy observed the three boys and noticed that when the content got more challenging, their behavior escalated. Clearly, the antecedent to their behavior was the introduction of a more difficult task, and the intended function was avoidance. Their skill or performance gap was likely the source of the problem.

After Brian Patterson assigned his class a collaborative task, he and Nancy spoke quietly to the three boys. The teacher made sure to separate the behavior from their character (“This isn’t the kind of learner I’ve come to expect from you”) and acknowledge the suspected antecedent (“It seems like you’re getting up and roaming around when the task is tougher. Is that true?”). The teacher then offered a solution (“I’m going to make a point of coming to your table first to clarify after I explain the task. That way you can ask as many questions as you need”) and some encouragement (“I want you to be successful today, and I know you want to be successful as well. We’ll work together to make that happen”). Things didn’t miraculously improve as soon as Nancy and the teacher intervened, but the three