Punitive or Restorative | 7

## Rewards

You may be thinking to yourself: *I don’t use punishments. My students earn points and privileges for good behavior.* Some people think that bribing students with an ice-cream social or a movie day when they behave is somehow better than meting out consequences when they don’t. In reality, rewards and consequences are two sides of the same coin: both are attempts to control students’ behavior rather than teach them how to engage in productive learning. Tangible rewards have actually been shown to undermine motivation (Deci, Koestner, & Ryan, 2001). Rewards suggest to people that they are being compensated for engaging in an unpleasant obligation. Importantly, research shows that good behavior diminishes as rewards are phased out. According to Kohn (2010), “Scores of studies have confirmed that rewards tend to lead people to lose interest in whatever they had to do to snag them. This principle has been replicated with many different populations (across genders, ages, and nationalities) and with a variety of tasks as well as different kinds of inducements (money, As, food, and praise, to name four)” (p. 17). Because students begin to lose interest with what they’re doing, over time the number or value of the rewards offered to them must increase if they are to remain on task.

## Consequences

Why do we punish students by meting out “consequences” when they misbehave? Probably because we experienced punishment as students ourselves. The most common punishment for student misbehavior in elementary school is loss of recess (Moberly, Waddle, & Duff, 2005)—ironic, given that evidence has shown regular physical activity to reduce problematic behavior and increase student achievement (Ratey, 2008). Another common punishment: placing students’ names on a board and applying checkmarks by those of students