Classroom Procedures and Expectations | 59

to age 15. The students’ 1st grade teachers were asked to grade each student’s math and reading abilities on a scale of 1–5, with 5 representing the highest proficiency. The researchers then compared these ratings to the students’ scores on 1st grade standardized tests. Not surprisingly, the teachers had underestimated the abilities of some students and overestimated those of others. Nine years later, the study revealed that the same students were still being under- and overestimated, suggesting that teacher expectations can have very long lasting results (Sorhagen, 2013).

Ninety percent of teachers report that they have high expectations for all students and that they communicate their expectations effectively, yet only 68 percent of middle schoolers think that their teachers believe they’ll make it to college (Carpenter, Flowers, & Mertens, 2004). We communicate our expectations every time we interact with students. When we help students who are struggling, we signal to them that we believe we are spending our time wisely; when we encourage them to enroll in advanced placement courses or strive for honors credits, we signal that we see their potential; when we reaffirm their dreams, we signal that their aspirations have value.

When students meet expectations, teachers should have classroom procedures in place to recognize their success. Here’s an example. Eighth grade teacher Francisco Reyes ends class each Friday with his students sitting in a circle surrounding a Success Jar. One at a time, students share any academic accomplishments they’ve experienced that week, which they’ve also written down on a notecard. After

I'm treated like an individual