Peace Building | 87

“creates realities . . . invites identities . . . and position[s] people in relation to one another” (2004, p. 9). In other words, the language we use influences how students see themselves and, in turn, how others view them. It is for this reason that we are wary of discipline strategies that communicate to others some sort of difference in status among students. Whether it’s moving clothespins on a chart or using an app to award and deduct points to and from students, these strategies remind them that there’s a hierarchy in place and fosters a competitive rather than collaborative climate.

**Identity-Building Statements**

Students’ senses of identity and agency are critical to restorative practices because they influence the extent to which students can solve problems, assume ownership of situations, and take action to make improvements. Identity-building statements allow students to examine themselves and the roles they devise for themselves. When we refer to students according to a certain category of identity (e.g., as English scholars, historians, or expert investigators), the students are challenged to consider the characteristics of that identity and whether or not they apply to them. When we ask students identity-building questions that contain labels (“I wonder if, as a writer, you’re ready for this?”), we simultaneously provide them with an identity and challenge them to extend themselves. When students misbehave, teachers can use restorative identity labels to separate the students from their actions: a statement like “That’s not the Robert I know” communicates that you see the individual behind the event.

**Agency Statements**

These types of statements provide students with the confidence to act. Statements such as “I can tell you studied hard for this biology test” and “That hard work is really paying off for you” signal to students that effort bears results. By contrast, statements such as “You’re so smart,” although well intended, can paralyze learners by