Peacemaking | 119

third-period class the next day. Dominique suggested that they convene a circle in all of her classes so that all her students could discuss the situation, and the teacher agreed.

The next day, Dominique and the teacher convened circles in each of the teacher’s classes. Dominique began each circle summarizing what happened and sharing the three questions that would frame the three-round discussion:

1. How does it feel when someone takes something from you?
2. What does a safe classroom feel like?
3. What would you do if you knew that someone had stolen something?

Next, Dominique reminded the class of the norms for the circle and passed the talking piece to the student sitting next to him. When it was the teacher’s turn to speak, she was able to express her feelings, crying as she explained that she was upset because the cell phone contained pictures of her recently deceased mother.

After school that day, a student from the teacher’s fourth-period class approached Dominique.

“I know who took the phone,” he said. “I don’t want somebody to have to go through that much pain again.”

It’s important to understand that the main goal of the circles was not to find out who took the cell phone but, rather, to let the teacher and others express their thoughts about the incident and its detrimental effect on trust in the classroom. By not restricting the circles to the period when the incident happened, Dominique and the teacher were able to show students how many people were affected by it—and in the process they discovered the culprit, who was then the focus of additional restorative activities. Thankfully, the phone was at his house, and none of the files on it had been deleted.

**Witness Circles.** This classroom circle format is a variation of the fishbowl in which a small inner circle addresses a conflict as a larger