94 | Better Than Carrots or Sticks

students who might otherwise sit quietly and observe. The teacher serves as facilitator, posing a question for the group to consider. A talking piece—that is, an item that serves as a visual reminder of who is speaking—is passed around the circle, and students take turns offering a brief response to the question. Importantly, students who aren’t holding the talking piece do not respond directly to those who are, though they may refer to their comments when it’s their turn to speak. Students always have the option to forfeit their turns, although we have found that they do so less often as they become more comfortable with the process. Teachers can use sequential circles to check in with students at the beginning of a lesson or to “check out” at the end.

High school world history teacher Joanna Schaefer uses sequential circles to debrief lessons with students. For example, after conducting a close reading of a speech by Joseph Stalin, Ms. Schaefer convened a circle for students to share their impressions. Students used words such as *intimidating* and *frightening* to describe the Soviet dictator and his words. A week later, Ms. Schaefer reconvened the circle for students to discuss Franklin Roosevelt’s “Day of Infamy” speech; this time, students described the speaker as “calming,” “assuring,” and “determined.”

Informal sequential circles are also helpful for broaching especially sensitive topics. For example, high school English teacher Heather Anderson convened a circle with her students to discuss their feelings about an upcoming high-stakes exit exam. Anxieties were running high, and Ms. Anderson asked each student to describe how he or she felt at that moment. “They had a chance to hear that they weren’t alone in feeling nervous,” she said. “Too many times, kids this age think they’re the only one experiencing something.”

**Nonsequential Circles**

Unlike sequential circles, nonsequential circles do not have a fixed order and allow students to respond directly to one another as