Classroom Procedures and Expectations | 57

- A 10th grade teacher uses table tents that have “working” and “ready” printed on either side. Students turn the tents to the appropriate side based on their status. They know that they are supposed to behave differently when they are working than when they are ready for another problem or for the teacher’s input. Tents alert the teacher to which groups have completed their tasks. When students at a table turn the card to “ready,” the teacher is cued to visit the table and discuss the students’ work.

The standard operating procedures above all provide students with clear expectations. Procedures do not have to be the same from class to class, but when they are, students know what to expect from every educator in the school. Here are a few examples of schoolwide and even districtwide procedures that align with restorative practices:

- In Bakersfield, California, you can go to any elementary or middle school and say “Class, class,” and the students and teachers will respond, “Yes, yes,” drop what they’re doing, and give you their attention.
- At Rosebank Elementary, all students use hand signals to indicate that they can’t hear a speaker and to agree or disagree with what is being said. Students are also expected to stand when they answer questions. When they do so, the rest of the class uses hand signals that the teacher monitors to direct the discussion (e.g., “Marco, I see that you disagree. Can you tell us why?”).
- At Madison High School, teachers have a procedure in place for getting students to start on a task. After saying, “Give me five,” they count down from five to zero, by which time the students know that they must tend to the task at hand.