Creating the Mindset for Restorative Practices 141

markets, yet some schools confine their reviews of data to once per year. Why would we think that working with the most complex of organisms—human beings—is somehow simpler than working with widgets? We actually analyze data throughout the year: we monitor attendance daily, generate weekly grade reports, and issue monthly data on disciplinary actions.

Every year during the back-to-school faculty retreat, we discuss students’ academic and behavioral performance. Before we embarked on our restorative practices journey, our school’s suspension rates were similar to those of other schools in the neighborhood. And as at those schools, some groups of students were being suspended at disproportionate rates. Although morale among staff was satisfactory, many were happy to see some students kicked out of school. In fact, a former administrator circulated lists of students and asked teachers to rate them so that they could “clean house” of the most poorly behaved students.

It’s not that we were a bad school; things were generally OK. Students were punished when they did things wrong, and parents became defensive when informed—probably the same status quo as at the schools around us. But things changed when our philosophy changed. Our suspension rates are now incredibly low, attendance is up, and teacher satisfaction and morale have skyrocketed (even at a time of declining fiscal resources). Teachers now have opportunities to share when they have experienced harm, which leads to healing. It’s profoundly moving to watch students attempt to repair any harm they’ve caused. When we embraced a restorative practices outlook, even parents’ attitudes began to change: instead of reacting defensively and trying to get their children out of trouble, our students’ parents understand that their children need to learn to behave as citizens and need to realize that the school is there to teach them how.