Creating the Mindset for Restorative Practices 137

of numbers) and *qualitative* (the soft data of stories). Educators are used to receiving voluminous amounts of hard data, especially in the form of student achievement reports, but rarely do they analyze the reports for deeper meaning and take necessary actions based on their findings. Soft data are essential because they allow us to understand students’ perspectives and therefore their actions.

## Hard Data

In addition to demographic and achievement reports, schools should regularly examine attendance and disciplinary figures. Other nonacademic data can add dimension to the portrait of a school as well: knowing how often the nurse’s office is used, by whom, and for what reasons, for example, can help to reveal underlying chronic health issues. Another overlooked source of hard data is telephone records: Whose parents has the school contacted? Why, and by whom? Schools that track parent contacts by teachers, front office personnel, and administrators are better able to locate gaps in their efforts to build strong community relations.

Disciplinary audits are an excellent starting point for assessing current practices and taking action to improve results. The form in Figure 6.1 includes gender and ethnicity data for students over the previous three years that educators can examine for evidence trends. These data can be used to analyze the effectiveness of past interventions as well as to identify needs. Data should be reported both in terms of raw numbers and in terms of percentages so that any disproportionality can be addressed. Beyond reporting numbers, the questions in Figure 6.1 invite administrators to examine where and when referrals originate so that they can pinpoint teachers who may need more support creating restorative classroom conditions. Surveys should be variously administered to students, staff, and families in order to obtain multiple perspectives. (The National Center on Safe Supportive Learning Environments has assembled a compendium of