Relationships and Meaningful Instruction | 31

was the first step on the path to Mario’s graduation and his eventual entry into the Army, where he proudly serves his country. To paraphrase Bronfenbrenner (1979), every child needs at least one person who is crazy about him or her. Mario just needed a couple of adults.

## Extracurricular Activities

Attending extracurricular events sends a powerful message that student interests are important. Nancy has attended a number of elementary school student performances, dances, and music recitals, and every time she does, students tell her the next day that they saw her in the audience. Not only does Nancy enjoy seeing current and former students, but she also knows that the time she spends doing so is a good investment in relationship building. Similarly, Dominique doesn’t miss a middle or high school sporting event, where he likes to start conversations with students and families.

Here’s an example of how extracurricular activities can help foster positive relationships with students. Although Savannah didn’t present any problematic behaviors in her 7th grade class, she didn’t seem to have many friends and was often alone. Her teachers regularly invited her to join groups at lunch and other social events, but she would always decline. (As an aside, having lunch with students on a regular basis is a great way to build relationships—students are often shocked that their teachers eat at all, let alone alongside them! At our school, we purposefully did not create a staff lunchroom so that teachers would have the opportunity to eat lunch with students.) Each week, Savannah’s school let students know about local activities that might interest them, such as guitar lessons or football tryouts. One week, Savannah heard that the YMCA was offering a water aerobics class. On the day of the class, she showed up with a signed permission form and seemed like an entirely different person: she was helpful, engaged, and attentive to her peers. She even reached out to the teacher who had first brought the class to the school’s attention, suggesting to