50 | Better Than Carrots or Sticks

long-term goals and craft plans to reach them. For example, we require students at our school to monitor and self-report their short- and long-term academic progress on a weekly basis; to self-assess their attendance levels and degree of participation in academic interventions as well as their sleep, nutrition, and work habits monthly; and to analyze their transcripts each year to gauge whether they are on track for postsecondary life. Our intention is to strengthen students’ sense of self-efficacy by having them monitor factors that are within their control. This approach deprives students of that classic excuse for poor achievement, “My teacher just doesn’t like me,” and shows them that successes are due to effort rather than innate ability. Both of these results are essential for helping students to develop a growth mindset (Yeager & Dweck, 2012). As they move into young adulthood, students will hopefully internalize the habit of monitoring their progress and making corrections as needed.

**Student Voices: “They Really Like Me Here”**

Deci and Ryan (1985, 2002) note that all people have three innate psychological needs:

1. **Relatedness**—they want to interact with, be connected to, and experience caring for others.
2. **Competence**—they seek to control outcomes and experience mastery.
3. **Autonomy**—they are compelled to be causal agents of their own lives.

Dianna, a 4th grader, taught us a lot about these needs. She moved into the district midyear with a very thick cumulative folder full of discipline referrals, suspensions, and student study team reviews. Her teacher, Mr. Sandoval, decided to assign her the most coveted