24 | Better Than Carrots or Sticks

decision about a student and will not know how to react. Teachers in this category will often become aware that they’re being unintentionally inviting but will not have the insight necessary to correct their behavior.

4. **Intentionally inviting**: These are the ideal teachers: proactive, systematic, and transparent. They treat all students with respect, build trust with students, have an optimistic outlook, and, most importantly, accomplish these things with *intentionality*. When the efforts of a school are channeled into becoming intentionally inviting to students, families, community members, and colleagues, results can be seismic. Though we believe in the influence of the individual, we know the power of the team. A school that welcomes all with open arms can profoundly affect the school climate.

**Building Trusting Relationships**

Whereas traditional discipline focuses on the violation of *rules*, restorative practices focus on the violation of *people and relationships*. In every classroom, relationships among individuals are either facilitating students’ learning or preventing it. Restorative practices are built on the positive relationships that adults foster with students and with each other in schools. When students care about the relationships they have with others, they work to keep those relationships healthy and to repair any damage to them.

**Knowing Students’ Names**

There are many strategies that teachers can use to foster, build, maintain, and strengthen their relationships with students. First and foremost, however, is one that we tend to take for granted: *knowing students’ names*. It can be hard, especially at the start of the year, for teachers to learn all of their students’ names, but it is vital that they do so, as this communicates value and importance. Consider Sandra Cisneros’s (1991) description of Salvador in her story “Salvador, Late or Early”: