56 | Better Than Carrots or Sticks

can’t we let students discreetly choose when they need to step out? Perhaps they could write their names on a whiteboard near the door when they leave, so we know where they are. If any student abuses the privilege, it’s worth a conversation, but that’s no reason to hold the entire class hostage.

We have a dedicated lecture hall in our school for all senior classes, and there are restrooms nearby for students to use. Classes in the lecture hall last three hours, so students learn to take comfort breaks at judiciously chosen points in the lesson. This is a life skill that we’ve all used countless times at meetings, conferences, and professional development sessions. The ability to attend to personal needs without compromising the work at hand is paramount. Could you imagine if you had to raise your hand and ask permission to use the restroom at work?

Here are some other examples of classroom procedures that teachers use to operate a smooth and orderly classroom:

- A kindergarten teacher plays a two-minute “cleanup” song, to which students respond by singing along and putting their materials away before the song ends.

- A 3rd grade teacher has students immediately store their backpacks in a unit along the back wall as they enter the classroom. Students know that their backpacks belong away from their desks and that they can get materials from their backpacks during transition times.

- A 6th grade teacher has a “we missed you” file for absent students. Each day, an assigned student collects an extra copy of lesson materials, instructions, and notes and places them in the appropriate folder. There is two weeks’ worth of material in the file at any given time. Whenever students return from an absence, they know to go to the file to obtain the material they need to catch up.