38 | Better Than Carrots or Sticks

to incorporate the behaviors into their own repertoires. Alternatively, teachers might use a fishbowl strategy by having students observe one another engaging in collaborative conversations and take notes for later discussion.

In Mr. Bonine’s class, the students work collaboratively and engage in conversations with their teacher and with each other. Mr. Bonine uses a checklist to outline behavioral expectations and provide students with feedback about how well they’ve met them (see Figure 2.3).

### 2.3 Sample Behavioral Expectations Checklist

Did you do the following today?

- [ ] Maintained eye contact with speakers  
- [ ] Remained focused on the lesson  
- [ ] Regularly leaned into the group rather than backing away  
- [ ] Used facial expressions to convey interest, questioning, or agreement  

### 3. Argumentation, not arguing.

Students engaged in highly productive group conversations use their argumentative skills to interact fruitfully with each other: They make claims, offer evidence, seek clarification, offer counterclaims, and reach consensus or identify points of disagreement. They can disagree without being disagreeable, and they can interact in sophisticated ways as they solve problems.

The proper use of argumentation has to be taught. Some teachers use language frames to guide students’ use of argumentation. For example, 4th grade teacher Susana Quiroz used the following frames (among others) related to supplying evidence during science so that her students would practice using academic language (Ross, Fisher, & Frey, 2009):