36 | Better Than Carrots or Sticks

2. The U.S. Tennis Association has rules about bounce, called rebound. The ball has to bounce to a certain height, and not too much more or less, to be considered a fair ball. Today, we’re going to focus on the height of each bounce, counting one bounce, then two, three, and so on. We’ll then graph our data to determine whether the decay is linear or exponential. By the end of the class, you’ll be able to summarize the change decay (in this case, loss of bounce) over time.

We find the second statement to be way more interesting than the first, and we think that students would, too. By intentionally inviting students to learn about the subject matter, the second statement is bound to pique student interest in the lesson. It’s true that the second statement took longer to craft. But if it results in significantly better student learning and less time spent refocusing the class and correcting student behaviors, then the investment is worth it.

There are times when learning targets are too complex and students end up giving up on the lesson. Conversely, there are times when learning targets are too easily achieved and students become bored by the lesson. Giving up and becoming bored can take the same form in class—namely, disruption. For this reason, it is important to take care when devising a relevant purpose for the learning at hand and composing lesson targets for students.

## Collaborative Learning

Research shows that students like school better, have more fun, and learn more when they have opportunities to engage in meaningful interactions with their peers (City, 2014). According to Danielson (2007), “Students assume considerable responsibility for the success of the discussion, initiating topics and making unsolicited contributions” in distinguished teachers’ classrooms (p. 82). In part, this is because “a teacher’s skill in questioning and in leading discussions