106 Better Than Carrots or Sticks

that impromptu conferences are not reserved for addressing problematic behavior. They can also be used when things are going really well or to help a student develop some attributes.)

### Student Voices: “I Used to Get Laughed At”

Miriam is, admittedly, a bit awkward. She’s bigger than most of her 4th grade peers and outspoken about her beliefs and expectations. She often misses social cues and intrudes into conversations, sometimes abruptly leaving others behind. Her teacher, Samantha Lynn, uses class meetings and circles on a regular basis, during which Miriam often expresses her concerns about the way her classmates treat her.

A few weeks into the school year, Miriam was complaining less and complimenting her classmates more. In a class meeting after about eight weeks, Miriam said, “Fernando told me that I was his friend. He is my first friend in 4th grade.” Over the course of the year, Miriam developed more friendships. She continued to complain about things, but less about the way people treated her personally and more about bullying that she observed among others. The class came together to address the issues she raised and agreed on solutions, such as launching a peer-led antibullying campaign (with the principal’s permission) and creating a public service announcement in iMovie that included the phrase “Sticks and stones can break my bones, but words can hurt forever.”

During a circle in late winter, Miriam choked up well before it was her turn to speak. When the talking object—a photo of the class visiting a local organic farm—came to her, Miriam spoke.

“I used to get laughed at,” she said. “I got teased and even pushed. People said I was fat. That I was ugly. And stupid. I hated going to school. Now I love it, because of all of the people in this picture. I’m sorry that I wasn’t very nice when I first came to this school. But I’m happy that I did. My mom says that I even like myself now.”