Peacemaking 125

the following sentence stem: “If you knew me, you would know ______.” Often, students will begin by revealing fairly superficial information (“If you knew me, you would know that my favorite color is yellow”) before gradually disclosing more personal truths. The students take turns completing the sentence, adding new information with each turn.

We recall a follow-up conversation between two students whose initial dialogue had focused on threatening glares that the offender had been directing at the victim. During the follow-up, after several turns, the offender said to the victim, “If you knew me, you would know my dad’s in jail and I worry about my mom.”

“I’m worried about my mom, too,” responded the victim. “My dad’s not in jail, but he left us two months ago, and my mom can’t pay rent.” This was the breakthrough that the two students needed and even led to the two of them becoming good friends.

A colleague of ours once taught us the importance of focusing on the value of the words *nevertheless* and *regardless* in conversation with students. For example, if a student says, “I hate that teacher,” his social worker might respond, “*Nevertheless*, you need to pass Algebra.” Or if a student says, “I’m not going to apologize to her,” the vice principal might respond, “*Regardless*, do you see that you have caused harm?” Used strategically, these two words have the power to keep conversations moving.

Figure 5.2 contains a sample form useful for following up on both victim-offender dialogues and high-stakes conferences.

## High-Stakes Conferences

These types of meetings are intended to address serious issues that may involve family members, law enforcement, or other outside parties. Young offenders often don’t realize that their actions can have repercussions beyond the parties directly involved because they