30 | Better Than Carrots or Sticks

- Visit a cross-section of students—ideally all of them—rather than target any particular group.
- Focus the visits on building relationships. (Hynes, 2014, p. 49)

Doug’s first home visit ever was to a 9th grader who was disengaged from school. Mario was absent more than half the time, and when he did attend school, he didn’t contribute much in class. He was failing all of his classes and was likely to have to repeat the grade, which would have put him at great risk of eventually dropping out of school completely.

The school social worker, Raphael, asked Doug to come along with him on a visit to Mario’s home. When Doug and Raphael arrived, Mario’s mom asked them to take off their shoes and come inside, where she served them some spicy black bean soup. The three of them talked for a while, mostly about Mario. “I don’t know what to do,” said his mom. “He just won’t get up. He says that he doesn’t care if he fails. But we didn’t come here for that.”

About 25 minutes into the visit, Mario came home. He entered the kitchen, calling for his mom. Doug and Raphael had told him that they would visit, but apparently he didn’t believe it because he came to an abrupt halt when he saw them. Staring in disbelief, he said, “Really? You came to my house? And you’re eating Mom’s soup?” Not knowing what else to say, Doug said, “Yeah, and it’s really good. I’m going to come for soup every day that you miss school. We all care about you. We want you to graduate more than you do. But someday, you’ll want it just as much as we do.” His mom started crying, and Mario said, “See what you did? Now she’s crying.”

Raphael responded, “Yeah, moms cry. But do you want her crying as you walk across that graduation stage or because you’ve dropped out and aren’t doing anything with your life? We’re here to help you, man. You can do this. We believe in you.”

At this, Mario started crying too and promised to try harder. It wasn’t easy, and there were certainly setbacks, but that home visit