Peacemaking | 109

Our next task was to consider a time when we’d caused another person harm, either intentionally or unintentionally. We were told that we did not have to share this experience with anyone else but that we should write some notes to ourselves as we recalled it. As part of the reflection, we were asked to consider the following questions:

- How did you feel?
- What would you have liked to say to the victim?
- Who or what would have made things right?
- What would justice have looked like for you and for the victim?

We spent about 10 minutes in quiet, personal reflection. When we came back together as a group, we were asked how we answered the questions. As our facilitator explained, “I would like us to talk about what would have made things right. What would justice look like to you now, with some distance from the event?”

Again, the conversation was powerful. The most common theme was a strong desire to apologize, to make things right, and to let the victim know why we had done what we’d done. As one of our colleagues said, “I wish I could do it over. I want to apologize. I want to own it. I was wrong, really wrong. I just want to tell her why it happened and beg for forgiveness.” Another said, “I wish I could tell him that I suffered as well. I beat myself up over it, and I want to apologize. Really, I’d do whatever it took to make things right.”

## Overcoming Resistance

The reason we spent so much time focused on the subject of justice during the professional development session discussed above is that the adults in a school have to be comfortable and supportive of restorative practices if they are going to be effective. A permanent change in students’ behavior may not occur after a single restorative conference—but permanent change doesn’t occur after suspension or

---
PAGE BREAK
---

110 | Better Than Carrots or Sticks

expulsion, either. We have found that educators need to clarify their thinking about justice if restorative practices are to truly take hold, which requires a significant shift in thinking—as Zehr (2002) notes, the restorative practices approach is a philosophy rather than a method.

For restorative practices to work, we have to learn to separate the deed from the doer (Braithwaite, 1989). Students need to know that they are valued but that the behavior is unacceptable. Australian criminologist John Braithwaite (1989) has found that people who are shamed and stigmatized for their actions are far more likely to reoffend than those who aren’t. But addressing conflicts or misbehavior in a nonstigmatizing way is easier said than done. We tend to conflate people’s actions with their fundamental selves, and we often criticize both. If we are to restore classrooms and schools to healthy learning communities, we have to focus on the actions without rejecting the individuals. When teachers say to elementary school students “Don’t be a bad boy” or “Do you always have to do that?” they run the risk of leaving students with a sense that they, rather than their actions, are the problem.

We are reminded of a middle school student who said very mean things to teachers, often targeting physical characteristics that the adults were self-conscious about. One of the student’s teachers said to him, “You are such an interesting thinker, and your art is fantastic. I’m just surprised you talk that way to people. Do you know that you can hurt people’s feelings with words?” By contrast, another of his teachers said to him, “You should be ashamed of yourself. You have no respect for adults. If I had my way, you’d be suspended every day until you were out of here.” Any guess as to which teacher had a better year? Jacob’s behavior was totally different in each teacher’s classroom, largely because one of his teachers was able to separate the deed from the doer and work to change the deed. The other teacher made it clear that Jacob should be excluded and would never feel welcomed.