142 Better Than Carrots or Sticks

# An Early Warning Mindset

An early warning mindset helps educators to determine whether students are heading for trouble, allowing them to intervene early. In some cases, analyzing data related to individual students can expose problems that they might be enduring in plain sight but that have been overlooked by the school. Over half of U.S. state departments of education mandate early warning reports on individual students to identify possible areas of concern. These reports take into account the following data:

- Attendance rates
- Grade-level promotion or retention
- Course completion rates
- Grade point averages
- State standardized test results
- Student mobility

Schools in states that don’t have early warning systems in place can amass this type of information with moderate effort. Additional factors to consider include whether students have disabilities, are English language learners, are in foster care, and are in good academic standing in current classes. Students whose patterns of attendance, course completion, and disciplinary actions suggest that they are at risk for failure should be targeted for additional support.

Figure 6.3 shows a list of early warning signs developed by the California State University system. As a California State University flyer puts it, “Trust your instincts and SAY SOMETHING if a student leaves you feeling worried, alarmed, or threatened!” (n.d.).

As useful as early warning systems can be, educators should use caution when interpreting the signs—after all, data are not destiny. To avoid stigmatizing students, we prefer not to quantify their relative levels of risk (which state-generated reports tend to do). We don’t