Relationships and Meaningful Instruction | 33

When students have positive relationships with their teachers, they are willing to try paying attention out of respect for their teachers. But if instruction isn’t engaging, they are still at risk of misbehaving—whereas if lessons are highly engaging and relevant to students’ lives, students will behave regardless of the quality of the student-teacher relationships. Ideally, of course, relationships among teachers and students are strong and instruction is highly effective.

## Formative Assessments

Formative assessments can prevent students from becoming frustrated and acting out, especially when they know that the teacher will reteach lessons based on the results. We remember one student, Jose, pouting and throwing down his 9th grade science journal after failing an assessment. Jose’s teacher reminded the class that they would be revisiting the lessons over the next few days, with a focus on areas that they did not do well on in the assessment. Upon hearing this, Jose perked up, picked up his notebook, and raised his hand. “So you’re not gonna put this one in the grade book yet?” he asked. “So I can fix it before my dad gets the e-mail for my grades and thinks I’m stupid?” As this anecdote shows, there is a clear link between formative assessment and student behavior.

## Gradual Release of Responsibility

In an effort to improve student learning and classroom environments, we have updated and revised the components of the gradual release of responsibility (GRR) model in our own Framework for Intentional and Targeted Teaching (Fisher & Frey, 2014). By intentionally sharing responsibility with students at different points in a lesson, teachers can monitor student learning and adjust their instruction accordingly. Our Framework for Intentional and Targeted Teaching encourages students who are engaging in GRR to collaborate with their peers using academic language. In addition, GRR requires