Peacemaking | 123

The dialogue process starts with the facilitator stating the purpose of the meeting, providing an overview of what happened, and discussing the steps necessary to repair the harm done. The facilitator asks participants to listen closely to one another, acknowledge one another’s feelings, and encourage one another to share their thoughts and perspectives.

Skilled facilitators understand that students will sometimes become emotional and defensive during a dialogue. We can recall a dialogue between two 3rd graders during which the offender kept interrupting the victim to deny that he was at fault. The facilitator reminded the students about the norms of the dialogue and reminded the offender that he would have a chance to share his perspective. “Let’s listen to [the victim] right now so that we can learn what he experienced,” he said. “Remember, it’s not about blame. It’s about figuring out what to do next.”

After students have shared their perspectives, the facilitator asks the students to share any thoughts or feelings that they’ve had since the precipitating incident and, as Mullet (2014) notes, “recognize their obligations and commit to restore, reconcile, and make restitution, which are real consequences of their actions” (p. 161). In nearly every one of these dialogues, offending students become emotional when they confront the hurt they’ve caused. Of course, helping these students realize that they can be a better version of themselves in the future is integral to the process.

When the offender has offered a heartfelt apology to the victim and reflected deeply enough to move forward, the dialogue shifts to a discussion

Judge me after you hear me