16 | Better Than Carrots or Sticks
---

shake our heads and tell each other that, unpleasant though it is, bullying is a natural developmental phase. If a child or parent challenges us to intervene, we might bring the parties involved together to try forcing a conclusion, but most of the time we’re left with the lingering feeling that the conflict isn’t over for good.

Of course, it’s always the big stuff that gets the most attention—a big fight between two groups of students, for example, or any kind of altercation that involves law enforcement. If the event becomes publicized outside of school—especially if it involves any number of factors related to gender, race, language, disability, or sexual orientation—then district or community spokespersons can be expected to announce their opinions of staff and students alike without ever setting foot on school grounds. If a school gets enough negative publicity, it risks becoming a punching bag for the district or region. Even without a media-grabbing incident, a school can earn notoriety: by having the lowest graduation rate in the district, for example, or the worst results on state tests, or high turnover rates among teachers and administrators.

> I wouldn't make it anywhere else!

Maybe your school doesn’t stand out in a bad way—achievement is solidly in the middle of the pack, there hasn’t been a major crisis in a long time, and students and teachers go about their business without much friction. But does the school parking lot become empty mere minutes after the school day ends? Do most students choose off-campus activities over school clubs? Do staff members see each other only rarely outside of mandatory meetings? If the answer to any of these questions is yes, then you are burdened with a weak