116 | Better Than Carrots or Sticks

phase as well. Figure 5.1 also contains sample questions useful in the Windup conversation.

## From Getting Even to Getting Well

Mullet’s three phases for addressing serious conflict can be implemented using a variety of formal restorative processes. As Pranis (2003) notes, formal restorative practices define justice as *getting well* rather than *getting even*. When offending students understand the harm they’ve caused, they do less of it (Strang & Braithwaite, 2001). We have seen this happen time and again.

Formal processes take time to implement. Listening to students—to those who have been harmed and to those who cause harm—can consume hours of the school day. As Mullet notes, “Restorative-minded educators view getting well as an academic priority and make time during the day for restorative dialogue” (2014, p. 161). As students learn to take care of each other, formal restorative techniques become less frequent. We recommend implementing the following three formal restorative practices in particular:

1. **Formal classroom circles** for resolving conflicts within the class
2. **Victim-offender dialogue** for resolving conflicts, allowing victims to face offenders, and allowing offenders to show remorse and make amends
3. **High-stakes conferences** for addressing serious conflicts that involve larger groups, such as the victim’s and the offender’s families, and that may require law enforcement involvement

## Formal Classroom Circles

Formal classroom circles are appropriate for the Windup phase of Mullet’s three-step process for addressing issues that affect the entire learning community, from playground confrontations to student cheating schemes. Because these kinds of incidents can provoke