132 Better Than Carrots or Sticks

really are, who they want to be, and how they want to live. Investing in their identity development is well worth the effort.

Jordan was a 10th grader who got in a lot of trouble. She said that she didn’t know who she was, that she didn’t care about herself, and that people only liked her if she made them happy. As a result, Jordan readily adopted the habits and behaviors of others while minimizing her own values and beliefs: she used and sold drugs, stole from others, ditched classes, and cheated on tests (despite the fact that she was easily in the top 10 percent of her class).

Jordan was a long-term project, and many people had invested in her. She was involved in numerous meetings and conferences. Her dad had spent time in prison and didn’t want his daughter to follow his path, but he also didn’t know how to help her.

“I have my at-home Jordan,” he said, “but then when she goes to school she’s a different person. She’s street Jordan, and she’s doing drugs, ditching school, and getting into trouble.”

Jordan’s father offered to attend any and every meeting at school that had anything to do with his daughter. He also learned how to have productive conversations with her at home that mirrored the conversations she had at school.

Jordan soon came to understand that the adults in her personal and academic life were not going to give up on her, no matter how many times she tried to push them away. She also realized that there were paths back to a healthy road when she got off track. Over several years, she became more self-assured and began voicing her own thoughts rather than worrying about what her friends of the moment would think. As she herself put it, “I was a handful, always trying to please the wrong people. But no one gave up on me. I had to face the consequences, but I wasn’t shunned because of what I did. I became a better me, and I’m proud of who I am now. I am going to college and studying marine biology because none of you would let me fail, no matter how hard I tried.”