## Classroom Procedures and Expectations | 61

front rather than catching them doing something wrong and then making a rule for that. Students deserve to know what we expect and that our expectations for their citizenship are high.”

### The Value of Teacher Sensitivity

Classroom rules, procedures, and expectations are transmitted to students through a cluster of behaviors known collectively as *teacher sensitivity* (Allen et al., 2013). Behaviors in this category include being responsive to students’ learning and emotional needs, caring for students, encouraging students to participate and take academic risks, and comforting students when they need it. Ask students what they most want in a teacher, and the answers will probably reflect these behaviors. In fact, these behaviors are desirable in any relationship: someone who cares about us, challenges us, and comforts us when we are hurting.

Third grade teacher Helena Kitchener begins each school year by asking her students, “What do students want in a teacher?” Together, she and her students craft agreed-upon expectations for what they should expect from her. “It helps me understand what they value and lets them know I will be accountable to them for their expectations,” she told us. The class then repeats the process in answer to the question “What does a teacher want in students?” The resulting expectations become the year’s Classroom Compact, which is signed by all parties and posted in a place of honor.

Several years ago, the editors of *Educational Leadership* magazine also asked students what they wanted in a teacher (ASCD, 2008). We liked their findings so much that we’ve used them to frame our discussion about the value of establishing relationship-building procedures.

### Students Want Teachers to Take Them Seriously

Students don’t want to be looked down upon or made to feel as though their problems are insignificant compared to those of adults.