84 | Better Than Carrots or Sticks

Back then we paid little attention to the importance of developing a consistent set of practices. More important, we didn’t have restorative practices in place, so our procedures were about adjudicating conflict rather than fostering social and emotional growth. Although teachers can certainly benefit from using restorative practices in their individual classrooms, they are best implemented consistently throughout the school—a major undertaking.

## Keeping, Making, and Building the Peace

The climate of any school reflects three main practices for preventing and managing conflict: peacekeeping, peacemaking, and peace building (Bickmore, 2011). Differences in the extent to and efficacy with which these practices are implemented from school to school can account for dramatically contrasting school climates. Schools that lean heavily toward peacekeeping tend to have security measures in place and seek to control and limit student freedoms to maintain order. But schools don’t need metal detectors to value peacekeeping; many classroom rules and procedures are designed to ensure safety. By contrast, peacemaking practices focus on dialogue and conflict resolution, especially through forums that purposefully lead students to a greater understanding of themselves and others. In cases where students harm others, peacemaking approaches value restoration and restitution over punishment. The third main type of practice, peace building, refers to investments in prosocial means of preventing and addressing disputes.

Schools that are more invested in peacemaking and peace building than peacekeeping seek to transform their efforts by making them part of the explicit, rather than hidden, curriculum (Bickmore, 2011). Peacemaking efforts include the formal restorative practices of problem-solving circles, victim-offender dialogue, and high-stakes conferences (Costello, Wachtel, & Wachtel, 2010). Peace-building efforts are folded into lessons such that students develop a vocabulary for