Classroom Procedures and Expectations | 79

when you’re stuck so that I can give you the help you need. You have my assurance that I will help you, and I need your assurance that you will do the same.

It is important to note that no one type of response is superior to another; rather, they represent a series of measured responses that advance only as the situation warrants. Failure to begin by exerting minimal control and advancing methodically from there can lead to escalation of the misbehavior. If the teacher in our earlier example had asserted a high degree of power and control with his initial intervention, he might well have provoked defiance from students.

Teacher Broc Arnaiz found himself in a difficult situation when he mispronounced a student’s name while taking roll for an internship program orientation. The student, a 9th grade boy, reacted angrily, standing up and hurling profanities and insults at Mr. Arnaiz. He was clearly poised for a fight. Mr. Arnaiz responded by apologizing: “I’m not sure what I did wrong, but I can see it was something. I’m sorry I upset you.” He did not get into a power struggle with the student, demand that he sit down, or threaten to send him to the principal. The student was taken aback, but only a bit. Mr. Arnaiz sent a quick instant message asking for help from Dominique. When Dominique arrived, he asked the student if they could talk—and the student replied with another volley of insults.

Dominique took the student out into the hallway and asked him what was wrong. “Stupid Americans can never pronounce my name,” he said. The two then discussed the importance of teaching people the right way to say a name before expecting it of them. After a while, the student became fed up. “I don’t want to go to this stupid school,” he said. “I don’t want to be a doctor. My mom only made me come here because of my brother.”

Dominique asked the student what he really wanted to do and learned that he wanted to be an architect.