Classroom Procedures and Expectations | 53

classroom contributes to the idea that the entire school is disorderly.  
But too often, teachers’ classroom-management skills are considered  
individually, without thought to their effect on the larger organization.  
An unruly classroom doesn’t only affect a few dozen people—it affects  
the entire building and undermines efforts to nurture a more positive  
climate across the school.  

## The Value of Rules and Procedures  

There is a rich vein of research literature on the importance of safe,  
orderly, and positive learning environments for the academic and  
social development of students (e.g., Morgan, Salomon, Plotkin, &  
Cohen, 2014). Establishing clear rules and procedures to ensure  
such environments helps educators to facilitate prosocial behaviors  
among students.  

All human societies tend to thrive when they develop rules to  
structure interactions, ensure fairness, and create a safe climate for  
all. Our classrooms are no different, and the rules we use with children  
tend to fall into the same three categories: we structure interactions  
(“Raise your hand,” “Listen as an ally”), ensure fairness (“Take turns,”  
“Show respect for others”), and create a safe climate for all (“Ask for  
help,” “Put materials away when you’re finished”). When students are  
asked about the types of teachers they want, they consistently mention  
those who “exercise authority without being rigid, threatening,  
or punitive” (Woolfolk Hoy & Weinstein, 2006, p. 185). Students expect  
there to be rules; they just want them to be fair.  

Effective classroom rules should mirror schoolwide values and  
be short, positively phrased, a reasonable number, and posted somewhere  
clearly visible in the room. Although most classrooms do feature  
rules posters on the walls, they often fade into the overall room design,  
like the alphabet cards on the wall above the whiteboard. Teachers  
might discuss the rules with students during the first week of school