120 | Better Than Carrots or Sticks

outer circle observes. However, in this case the smaller circle includes an open chair reserved for anyone from the observing circle who has something to say over the course of the discussion. If the chair is occupied, the student sitting there automatically speaks next before returning to the outer circle.

Fifth grade teacher Darla Hamilton invited school counselor Francisco Lopez to facilitate a witness circle to address the ongoing use of harmful and inflammatory language by several of her students. In advance of the circle, Mr. Lopez talked to each of the responsible students individually as well as to a handful of other kids in the class. “I made sure I talked to some other students in the class to get a feel for the extent of what had been occurring,” he told us.

When the witness circle was convened, it featured an inner circle of five chairs. Ms. Hamilton sat in the outer circle, and Mr. Lopez sat in the inner circle alongside Natalie, Robert, and DeJuan—a victim, an offender, and a witness. He introduced the class to the circle and reminded them of the norms.

“I asked these three students to begin our discussion today,” said Mr. Lopez to the class. “Each of them agreed to be a part of this witness circle to talk about the growing problem you’ve been having with the use of damaging language in class.” He went on to explain that the open chair in the inner circle was available for anyone in the rest of the class who wanted to join the discussion.

For the next 25 minutes, Mr. Lopez led the class through a conversation about the effects of derogatory slurs in class. Throughout the discussion, students from the observing circle would periodically occupy the open chair and contribute their thoughts. The class reached a pivotal moment when Oliver, a student with a younger sibling, sat in the open chair and addressed the group.

“I was just thinking that my dad’s always telling me to set a good example for my little brother,” he said. “But I’d be ashamed if he heard the way we talk to each other.”