Peacemaking | 115

# Types of Formal Restorative Practices

Formal restorative practices are used to address significant problems that are unlikely to be resolved without an investment in time and dialogue. Mullet (2014) argues that conversations in such situations must be respectful and allow all perspectives to be heard before any further action is taken. She suggests that educators follow a three-phase process to help students repair relationships, address the harm they’ve done, and support each other as they internalize the process and develop positive habits of their own. The process works as follows:

**Phase 1: Unwind.** In the first phase, those who have been harmed have an opportunity to voice their feelings in private. They are encouraged to calm down—to unwind, if you will—from the hurt they’ve experienced. Because conflict can damage a person’s sense of self, part of the Unwind conversation focuses on reestablishing the offended party’s identity. Another part of the conversation focuses on soliciting ideas from the victim regarding ways to allow for restitution, repair, and healing.

**Phase 2: Rewind.** During this phase, the offending student is given the opportunity to reflect on his or her behavior and understand the harm that it caused. This phase allows students to review the situation, consider the facts, and identify a course of action to make things right. The goal of the Rewind phase is to induce empathy in students and ensure that they accept responsibility for their actions. Students can practice their apologies during this phase and identify what they consider to be reasonable consequences for their behavior.

**Phase 3: Windup.** During this phase, observers of the conflict have an opportunity to share their perspectives and become participants in the healing process, supporting both the offended and offending parties. Such participation is empowering for students and increases the likelihood that relationships will be repaired and positive behavior continued. Adult observers can take part in the Windup