62 | Better Than Carrots or Sticks
---

Do you remember how it felt when your heart was broken for the first time and adults chuckled, “It’s only puppy love, you’ll get over it”? Or the constant reminders from older people that “these are the best days of your life, so you’d better enjoy them”? The struggles of growing up are profound and wrenching. Listen with your heart and offer comfort and encouragement. Remember that these small kindnesses are not forgotten.

At our school, when teachers have a few minutes free, they stand at one of various locations around the school that feature a sign reading “How can I help you? I have the time,” ready to chat with students. Because students know where these locations are, they can drop by during passing period if they’d like. There are no formal requirements associated with this procedure, but teachers are expected to make themselves available on a regular basis. By holding impromptu conversations, adults and students invest in building their relationships with one another.

## Students Want Teachers to Challenge Them to Think

Popular notions to the contrary, students *want* to learn—they want to feel as though their time is well spent. When they offer opinions, teachers should ask, “Why do you think that?” If they give brief replies, teachers should prompt them to continue (“Tell me more”). We all appreciate it when our thinking is solicited. It is also important for teachers to provide students with opportunities to investigate issues: because problem-based and project-based learning principles are predicated on a foundation of inquiry, students will often arrive at different solutions, which provides additional incentive for discussion and thoughtful debate.

Pre-algebra teacher Ben Caruthers challenges his students to justify their conclusions and engage in public debate. “I offer my students a difficult math problem almost every day,” he told us. “I call it ‘You Be the Judge.’ It’s usually a worked example with an incorrect answer.