10 | Better Than Carrots or Sticks

## A Different Way Forward

It took several years, but Nancy eventually developed new tools to use with students when their behavior proved problematic. She began to spend more time establishing and teaching rules and setting expectations, structuring conversations with students that strengthened relationships and helped develop communication skills, and learning new ways to de-escalate disruptive events. Most importantly, she learned (and continues to learn) that *problematic behaviors signal a student’s lack of skills for responding appropriately to difficult situations*. Just as students need teachers to teach them grammar and math, they need us to teach them how to respond properly to events.

Children who are habitually criticized, humiliated, or shamed internalize negative feelings about themselves that hinder their healthy development. By contrast, children accustomed to loving support and guidance are much more likely to become healthy and productive citizens. The traditional consequences-and-rewards system of discipline common in many classrooms is not resulting in children who are prepared to learn.

Let’s be clear: we’re not saying that teachers should completely refrain from rewarding students—just that the rewards should not be contingent on students’ behavior. These types of rewards fall under the rubric of “noncontingent reinforcement” (Cipani & Schock, 2010). It’s fine to offer rewards “just because,” regardless of whether students “deserve” them or not. In fact, noncontingent reinforcement can actually help to prevent problematic behaviors: Have you ever noticed the way kindergarten teachers will sometimes place the most attention-seeking children on their laps when reading aloud to the whole class? This is a classic example of noncontingent reinforcement employed to preempt any disruption. Teachers use noncontingent reinforcement regularly as they build the culture and climate of their classrooms.