146 Better Than Carrots or Sticks

staff at our school to receive training on issues related to students who identify as lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, or questioning (LGBTQ). Because we believe strongly that our school should be a safe space for everyone, there is a sign in every classroom noting that all students are accepted and protected and that damaging language and behavior will not be ignored.

Although some staff members have felt their religious or cultural beliefs challenged by our acknowledgment of LGBTQ issues, we have never encountered a caring educator who opposes the core values of being free of harassment—and being free to learn.

## A Team Mindset

Every job in a school comes with a well-defined set of responsibilities: teachers teach, counselors counsel, and administrators administer. Unfortunately, narrowly focused roles are not compatible with a holistic approach to education. The life of a schoolchild touches at various times on every specialization offered at school, but rarely in isolation. To ensure that we take the full complexity of students’ school lives into account, we strongly recommend implementing interdisciplinary school teams.

Our school begins each day with a 10-minute standing meeting in one of the larger classrooms during which our informal interdisciplinary teams meet. (We call it a standing meeting for two reasons: because no one sits down, as meetings seem to double in length whenever that happens, and because the meeting occurs every day of the school year.) All the adults on campus, both certified and classified, stand in a circle and discuss the following three agenda items:

1. Logistics and scheduling
2. Spotlight on students who deserve recognition or are causing concern
3. A culture-building routine