Peace Building 103

Students are often not aware of their insights in advance of writing. It is a process, with sentence stems leading them on a path toward ownership of the situation. It took Melody and Vanessa a good 15 minutes to finish half a dozen sentences. After reading the two statements himself, Mr. Bragg asked the girls to silently read each other’s papers. It’s probably not a surprise to learn the two were in tears a few minutes later and ended up hugging. By addressing their heightened feelings first, Mr. Bragg was able to help the girls move forward to discuss the status of their group project.

Conflicts such as Melody and Vanessa’s are best addressed in the classroom, under the guidance of a caring adult who is willing to spend the time helping the students untangle their conflicts. As Mr. Bragg later remarked to us, “Yeah, I teach science, but I teach middle school kids. Science is my content—kids are why I’m here.”

Impromptu conferences are not limited to minor conflicts between students; teachers can also use them to address conflicts that they themselves may be having with students. Most often, such conferences center on addressing students’ off-task behavior.

All of us, students and adults alike, go off-task at some point. Remembering this can help us to restrain our emotions when it happens.

Math teacher Craig Kenny noticed a group of students who seemed to be off-task in his 9th grade class one day, so he posted a problem on the board for the rest of the class to solve while he met with them. “I’m not sure what happened, but it seemed like you were not paying attention to the lesson,” he said. “I was disappointed because I worked really hard to plan this lesson that I thought you would really enjoy and that would teach you how to figure out problems with exponents. Is there something that I should know?”

“I’m sorry, it was my fault,” said one of the students. “Coach told me that our game was changed to a different place, and I was letting the other guys know. Then we started talking about the other team,