152 Better Than Carrots or Sticks

Du Bois, W. E. B. (1903). The souls of black folk: Essays and sketches. Chicago: A. C. McClurg.

Dweck, C. S. (2006). Mindset: The new psychology of success. New York: Ballantine.

Fisher, D., & Frey, N. (2014). Better learning through structured teaching: A framework for the gradual release of responsibility (2nd ed.). Alexandria, VA: ASCD.

Fisher, D., Frey, N., & Pumpian, I. (2012). How to create a culture of achievement in your school and classroom. Alexandria, VA: ASCD.

Frey, N., Fisher, D., & Everlove, S. (2009). Productive group work: How to engage students, build teamwork, and promote understanding. Alexandria, VA: ASCD.

Gallup Inc. (2014). State of America’s schools: The path to winning again in education. Available: http://www.gallup.com/opinion/gallup/173615/gallup-releases-new-insights-state-america-schools.aspx

Gilstad-Hayden, K., Carroll-Scott, A., Rosenthal, L., Peters, S., McCaslin, C., & Ickovics, J. (2014). Positive school climate is associated with lower body mass index percentile among urban preadolescents. Journal of School Health, 84(8), 502–506.

Grant, K., & Davis, B. H. (2012). Gathering around. Kappa Delta Pi Record, 48(3), 129–133.

Hall, P. (2013). A new definition of punishment. Reclaiming Children and Youth, 21(4), 22–26.

Hoffman, S. (2014). Zero benefit: Estimating the effect of zero tolerance discipline policies on racial disparities in school discipline. Educational Policy, 28(1), 69–95.

Hynes, W. (2014). Meet the family. Teaching Tolerance, 48, 48–50.

James-Ward, C., Fisher, D., Frey, N., & Lapp, D. (2013). Using data to focus instructional improvement. Alexandria, VA: ASCD.

Johnston, P. (2004). Choice words: How our language affects children’s learning. York, ME: Stenhouse.

Johnston, P. H., Ivey, G., & Faulkner, A. (2011). Talking In class: Remembering what is important about classroom talk. The Reading Teacher, 65(4), 232–237.

Jones, K. (2013). #zerotolerance #KeepingupwiththeTimes: How federal zero tolerance policies failed to promote educational success, deter juvenile legal consequences, and confront new social media concerns in public schools. Journal of Law and Education, 42(4), 739–749.

Kiliç, A. (2013). The relationship between individual teacher academic optimism and school climate. International Online Journal of Educational Sciences, 5(3), 621–634.