Classroom Procedures and Expectations | 81

## Student Voices: "The Rules Are the Rules, but You Can Get Another Chance"

Middle school student Jorge arrived at school one day wearing a shirt that read “Tequila makes me do bad things.” The shirt clearly violated the school dress code, which had been communicated to him clearly and often. The dress code read, “Ask yourself this question: Does what you wear communicate respect for yourself and the learning environment?”

In some schools, teachers ask students whose shirts violate the dress code to turn the shirts inside out. When this happens, the students’ peers often notice and think they’ve put their clothes on backward. Fear of such humiliation leads some students to refuse to turn their shirts inside out. Jorge’s school took a different tack. An administrator told him that he could have a school pride shirt in exchange for the tequila shirt. Somewhat reluctantly, Jorge agreed. “I just have to ask your mom if it’s OK,” said the administrator. “Can you call her really quick so that you’re not late for class? You’re not in trouble, but I want to be sure she agrees to the trade.” When Jorge’s mom heard about the offensive shirt, she was embarrassed. “I had no idea that he even had that shirt,” she said to the administrator. “Yes, of course, make the trade. And you can burn that shirt when you get your hands on it.”

Later in the day, the administrator overheard Jorge telling his friends how he got the cool new shirt he was wearing.

“Yeah, like, I coulda got in a lot of trouble because I made a bad choice,” he said. “But [the administrator] just told me again what the expectations are and then made sure I could live up to them. You gotta respect that. The rules are the rules, but you can get another chance.”