144 | Better Than Carrots or Sticks

At our school, we pay close attention to new students, especially 6th and 9th graders, in the first week of classes. Administrators are regularly rounding, asking teachers to identify students who might need additional behavioral support. By the first Friday of the school year, we’ve usually compiled a list of such students—we call them “high flyers”—and each administrator takes on two or three of them as his or her responsibility for the next four years. We devote our energies to building a positive relationship with each of “our” students and serve as their advocates to the rest of the school. Nearly all of the students we’ve identified early on for support have become important parts of our lives. Of course, we don’t disclose to them that we had targeted them for intervention early on, although sometimes we’ll let them know as they near graduation (and they do graduate). At that point, they’re prone to enjoy hearing about their younger, sillier selves. (Many of the stories in this book are from our high flyers.)

A few years ago, Doug was having a conversation in the hallway with a principal visiting from another school when one of his high flyers stopped by and gave him a warm hug. Doug paused the conversation to return the young man’s hug, wish him well, and send him on to class.

This is my second chance  
THANKS

The principal with whom Doug had been speaking stood there with her mouth agape. “I was that boy’s middle school principal,” she said. “My co-workers and I used to high-five each other on days when he didn’t get off the bus, because it meant we’d have a better day without him there.” With that, she broke down in tears.

All of us have probably experienced the secret relief of knowing that a particular student won’t be at school today.