Punitive or Restorative | 19

- **Tier 1:** This tier refers to the use of preventative behavioral supports across classrooms that generally meet the needs of about 80 percent of students.
- **Tier 2:** This tier refers to supports designed for the approximately 15 percent of students who misbehave frequently and require extended attention.
- **Tier 3:** This tier refers to interventions designed for the small number of students with intractable behavioral difficulties that are especially taxing to the school’s resources. Supports in Tier 3 include more time-intensive tools than the other two tiers, such as functional behavioral assessments.

The restorative approach to discipline incorporates principles of the SWPBIS approach to focus on prevention through relationship building by drawing on the collective strengths of the community to help individuals in trouble regain their footing in a nurturing environment with consistent classroom practices and high expectations. Most of all, restorative practices draw their strength from communication tools: adults use language that builds agency and identity and facilitate class discussions in a way that encourages affiliation and resolves problems. Restorative practices represent a positive step forward in helping all students learn to resolve disagreements, take ownership of their behavior, and engage in acts of empathy and forgiveness.

**Student Voices: “Your Kids Are Lucky to Have You”**

Each chapter in this book ends with a “Student Voices” section. We frankly couldn’t imagine writing a book about restorative practices without including student perspectives—after all, they are our “clients,” “buying” what we have to “sell,” and every good business talks regularly to its customers to find out what’s working and to improve what isn’t.