34 | Better Than Carrots or Sticks

teacher modeling of both content knowledge and social and behavior expectations, guided instruction designed to address gaps in students’ understanding, and independent learning tasks that allow students to try out what they have learned.

## Purposeful Learning

For purposeful learning to occur, students need relevant learning targets. When students know what they are expected to learn, why they are expected to learn it, and how they can demonstrate what they’ve learned, they pay closer attention to their work and engage in less misbehavior.

Here’s an example. Students in Ms. Herrera’s kindergarten class were rereading the book *The Day the Crayons Quit* (Daywalt, 2013). To invite them into the lesson, Ms. Herrera made the following announcement: “Today, we get to reread our new book, *The Day the Crayons Quit*. But this time, we’re going to figure out how Duncan responded to the letters. We already analyzed the text to figure out what each crayon wanted, right? Who remembers what a crayon was complaining about?”

“The red crayon is tired because he has to work on the holidays, like drawing hearts for Valentine’s Days,” responded Elvida. “And the gray crayon has too much work because he has to draw too many big things, like hippopotamuses and elephants,” said Dinello. “Not green crayon,” Aisha said. “He doesn’t have any problems. He likes to color things green.” After several more students had discussed the issues facing the different crayons, Ms. Herrera interjected.

“You all really know this book well,” she said. “And remember, today we’re going to figure out how Duncan responds to the various complaints. Remember, we’re always looking for evidence to add to our responses. And where does the evidence come from?”

In unison the students responded, “From the book!” Tomás added, “It can be the words or the pictures. And we say ‘because’ to tell people that we have evidence.”