48 | Better Than Carrots or Sticks

held agreements and that their success depends on each individual’s ability to abide by them. To be sure, students need to be supervised and kept safe in ways that are developmentally appropriate. But teachers must balance such caution by providing students with lots of experiences making independent decisions so they can accrue the knowledge gained from both success and failure.

Many teachers give their students a voice in constructing rules and expectations for their classroom. This is vital, as it provides students with a sense of ownership that they otherwise might lack. Dominique worked with an experienced 8th grade teacher, Sarah Lester, who was facing difficulties during two of her science class periods. The classroom-management tools Sarah had relied on weren’t working, and she sensed that she was becoming increasingly frustrated with her class—that is, she recognized that she was becoming unintentionally uninviting toward her students. Anxious for help, she asked Dominique to facilitate circle discussions during the two difficult class periods. Over the course of these discussions, each class developed its own rules and expectations (see Figures 2.5 and 2.6). Though they may not seem particularly profound, the written directives served as powerful representations of shared agreements—contracts, if you

### 2.5 Classroom Rules and Expectations: Example 1

Our 3rd Period Community of Learners pledges to
- Learn something new each day.
- Offer and ask for help.
- Use one voice.
- Show mutual respect.
- Avoid interruption.