Peacemaking 127

don’t recognize the investment that others have made in their social and emotional development.

Elementary school principal Victoria Washington convened a high-stakes conference after discovering that several of her students were caught smoking grass after school. Not marijuana, mind you—actual grass. The school’s vice principal facilitated the meeting so that Ms. Washington could participate as a member of the community along with the children’s parents. During the conference, the parents took turns expressing their embarrassment at their children’s actions. Ms. Washington shared that she was mortified, too. “It made me look like I didn’t know what was happening at our school,” she said. “How can I guarantee parents that their children are being supervised? I didn’t like feeling foolish.” The children at the meeting were surprised to hear this. Realizing that they had failed to consider Ms. Washington’s point of view, they apologized to her and to their families. By the end of the conference, the group had agreed on a plan for restoration that included having the offenders work on the school’s drug awareness campaign. (The students themselves suggested that they not be allowed to go outside for two weeks, but the principal rejected the offer as unnecessary.)

High-stakes conferences don’t just happen—they require a lot of work in advance to ensure that the right people are in the room and properly prepared. Sometimes high-stakes conferences are a next step after a victim-offender dialogue has failed to prevent a problem from escalating. As with other meetings, it is useful for the facilitator to spend some time meeting with the parties in advance to familiarize them with the process and the desired outcomes. We want the high-stakes conference to be a positive move forward, not just another venue for arguments.

We once had a student, Drew, who was implicated in the theft of a dozen electronic tablets from our school—a surprising development, as he had built strong relationships with teachers and administrators.