Peace Building | 83

“I don’t know,” Phillip replied. “I guess they just didn’t give up on me.”

At our school, we did give up on Phillip. We used the approaches that we knew at the time, and when they didn’t work, we turned to punishment. When Phillip pushed us away with his misbehavior, we responded by distancing ourselves. We didn’t have the capacity at the time to build solid relationships with a wary adolescent who had learned early on not to trust adults. When Phillip violated school or classroom expectations, we answered with suspension, as if that would somehow “teach him a lesson.” We used that phrase a lot: *teach him a lesson*. We wanted Phillip to be contrite, but we never taught him how to move from regret (“I’m sorry I got caught”) to remorse (“I’m sorry I caused harm”) to making amends (“I want to repair the damage I caused”) to true contrition (“I want to be a better person”). No one learns to be a better person by spending a few days suspended from school. At best, suspending students can cause them only to regret what they’ve done. In retrospect, the suspensions we imposed were more about vengeance than instruction. We were being intentionally uninviting.

If Phillip were to enroll in our school today, our response to him would be totally different. At the beginning of each year, we ask teachers to flag students who might need special attention and add their names to a “high flyer” list, and Phillip would clearly be on that list. We would have identified an adult in the school to build a relationship with him and serve as an advocate. Other staff would have sought to establish relationships with him as well, to build trust. One way to build trust is by employing the 2 × 10 strategy: spend 2 minutes talking with a student about anything other than school for 10 consecutive days. This simple strategy has positively affected hundreds of students in our school and in schools around the world.

Phillip’s teachers would receive better support today, too. When he was enrolled with us, Phillip experienced a patchwork quilt of classroom-management practices that changed with every class.