68 | Better Than Carrots or Sticks

the root of the conflict (that is, the slow trigger of the student’s fight with his parents). Three days later both boys return to school, and nothing is resolved.

Some consequences for behavior are immediate (taking a swing at someone lobbing an insult), and others are delayed (suspending the students involved in a fight). The logic of a consequence isn’t always apparent, particularly as it can initially be hard to discern an explanation for the behavior. The conventional approach is to tell students that they “chose” the consequence by misbehaving. However, children and adolescents don’t have the same ability as adults to anticipate the ramifications of their behavior. This is especially true in emotionally charged situations.

Keep in mind that consequences shine a spotlight on the intended function of behaviors: we all behave in certain ways either to get something or to avoid something. This is why “cookbook” approaches to behavior management are inadequate and can even cause more harm than good. When we focus on behaviors to the exclusion of their antecedents, we aren’t addressing the causes or functions in any meaningful way. Looking for the function of a behavior isn’t the same as excusing it or rationalizing it. Rather, establishing the intended function prevents us from identifying consequences that inadvertently reinforce the behavior. If we fail to examine the antecedents of a behavior, we miss the opportunity to locate underlying issues. As Cicero noted more than 2,000 years ago, “The causes of events are ever more interesting than the events themselves.”

I trust you!

Let’s look again at the example of Andrew. If the function of his behavior is to escape school because he’s upset with himself and his parents, then a