114 | Better Than Carrots or Sticks

OK, because he was a valuable member of the learning community. The principal met with Cody’s mom when she arrived to pick him up and let her know that they were not considering suspension and that the meeting they’d scheduled was intended to recruit Cody into making more positive choices.

During the meeting the following day, Cody heard how he had hurt various people. He faced his coach, a favorite teacher, a social worker, and, with Cody’s mom’s permission, a student leader who had been trained in restorative practices. The meeting focused on respect for the school and the people in it, the importance of not creating hazards, and Cody’s role as a leader in the school. His mom expressed her hurt, worry, and fears. She also said that she planned to drug test him monthly. “Not because I don’t trust you, honey— I do,” she told him. “I just need the peace of mind. I hope you’ll understand.”

Cody admitted his transgression, apologized for the harm he had caused, and made a commitment to stay clean. He also told his mom that she could drug test him. “I know that you want the best for me, even when I get angry at you,” he said. “You’ve handled this great, and I’m sorry that you had to deal with this.” He then asked if he could join an after-school club “because I get in trouble when I have too much free time.”

“I think we should touch base at least twice per week for the next couple of weeks,” added the social worker, “just to see that you’re on track. Then we can drop it to once a week, and if all is going well, you can just come to see me when you want.”

In Cody’s case, the elapsed time between his offense and his reintegration into the learning environment was quite short. Some might say that he should have been suspended or even expelled. But a restorative approach acknowledges that young people make mistakes in the process of growing up and that these mistakes provide them with an opportunity to learn.