64 | Better Than Carrots or Sticks

community activities. In fact, many high schools include community service as a graduation requirement. Students benefit from seeing how their contributions make a difference in the lives of others.

Mr. Harmon’s 6th graders use a class wiki to post “help wanted” and “help offered” ads. On any given day, students can check the “help offered” section of the wiki to see who they might turn to for assistance with classwork. If no one is available to help them, they can then post a “help wanted” ad. One student, Sophia, posted the following ad: “Too much to do. Can someone help me prioritize? I just need to talk it through so that I can figure out which assignments to do first.” She had a response within an hour from Justine, who replied, “Yeah, I can be your ears. But can you go over the math homework with me?” Sophia and Justine learned that their actions matter and that they can make a difference to their peers.

On a grander scale, the students in Ms. Armstrong’s class engage in community service every month, such as providing meals for the homeless and contributing to beach cleanup efforts. The students know that their actions benefit others and that they are important members of the community.

## Students Want Teachers to Point Them Toward Their Goals

Letting students establish goals for themselves can propel learning and help them to develop their senses of self. However, students need to understand that goals have three dimensions: mastery, performance, and effort (Alexander & Jetton, 2000). Middle school mathematics teacher Eddie Garza has a procedure in place to help his students establish goals. “At the beginning of each unit, I ask them to fill out a short form that includes the grade they intend to earn [performance], at least two learning goals [mastery], and the time they will devote to accomplishing these goals [effort],” he said. Mr. Garza posts the students’ goals in the classroom and meets with individual students briefly each week to check on their progress. “It’s shifted