Peace Building | 89

that! I mean, it hurt my feelings when you tore that up because I was still working on it.” Ben responded, “Sorry. I thought you were done, and I was just having fun ripping it. Want me to get you a new one?” What could have been an altercation between two boys ended very peacefully, with no hard feelings.

## Class Meetings

Class meetings are an important feature of schools dedicated to restorative practices because they build the identity and agency of the class as a whole. Typically, such meetings serve one or more of the following purposes: to plan and make decisions, to “check in,” and to solve problems or raise awareness (Vance, 2013). Both academic and social issues are appropriate topics for consideration. Class meetings are usually student-led, which helps learners “become motivated and take responsibility for their behavior, their work, and their class participation” (Leachman & Victor, 2003, p. 64). As Potter and Davis (2003) note, research shows that implementing class meetings three times a week for eight weeks “increased students’ skills in relation to listening attentively, complimenting and appreciating others, showing respect for others, and building a sense of community” (p. 88).

We don’t recommend using class meetings for conflict resolution among students—that’s what conferences are for. Instead, we recommend using them as vehicles for discussing matters openly with the whole class. Rules for class meetings ought to ensure that all classroom voices are heard. The teacher’s role in these meetings is primarily that of facilitator, posing questions for the class to discuss (e.g., “What is something we should make sure we’re all doing tomorrow so that our trip to the museum goes well?”). Older students might hold short discussions about the learning strategies they find most effective in the class. As students become comfortable with class meeting routines, teachers can ask them to take the lead as facilitators.