Punitive or Restorative | 17

school climate. The National Center for School Climate defines climate as the “quality and character of school life.” It isn’t something separate from the rest of the school; rather, it emanates from the relationships that exist between and among staff, students, family, and community. It is affected by the way discipline is handled in the school—how (and whether) problems are addressed.

School climate informs the way teachers manage their classrooms. Positive school climate is associated with a myriad of achievement, efficacy, and health measures, such as

- Higher mathematics achievement for K–3 students (Bodovski, Nahum-Shani, & Walsh, 2013),
- Higher academic optimism among teachers (Kilinç, 2013),
- Lower body mass index scores for elementary students (Gilstad-Hayden et al., 2014), and
- Lower smoking rates among high school students (Lovato et al., 2013).

We could list other studies, but you get the idea—school climate matters; it informs how we work, teach, learn, and live. Unfortunately, it can be quite difficult to assess your school’s climate from the inside. In addition, school climate isn’t static—it shifts from day to day, depending on a variety of factors (e.g., who’s present and who’s absent, what happened over the weekend, whether the school is in the midst of statewide testing, how close the school year is to ending).

Here are just a few of the compelling reasons why it is worthwhile to focus your attention and effort on improving your school’s climate using the restorative approach:

- Because you care about student achievement
- Because you care about students’ civil rights
- Because you care about students’ emotional and psychological health