122 | Better Than Carrots or Sticks

conversations. The facilitator might ask the offender the following sequence of questions:

- What happened?
- What were you thinking of at the time?
- What have you thought about since?
- Who has been affected by what you have done? In what way have they been affected?
- What do you think you might need to do to make things right?

and might ask the victim the following questions:

- What did you think when you realized what had happened?
- What effect has this incident had on you and others?
- What has been the hardest thing for you?
- What do you think needs to happen to make things right?

If either the victim or the offender isn’t willing to participate in the dialogue, then it can’t take place, and other consequences may need to be applied. In our experience, it is rare for students to refuse to participate in dialogue. We recall one offender who refused to participate because she was so embarrassed about what she had done: texting naked pictures of an ex-boyfriend to friends. We had worked with law enforcement, and the student had accepted the consequences (anger-management classes and community service), but she refused to face her friends or her ex-boyfriend in a dialogue.

Eventually, we held a meeting with the student’s mother to explain the restorative goal of the dialogue. After a long conversation, she turned to address her daughter.

“You have to own this and move forward,” she said. “Running away from your past isn’t healthy. If you need to see a counselor first to practice, I’ll take you, but I really want you to meet with the other students. I know you’re embarrassed, but it sounds to me like this meeting can help you move past that.”