44 | Better Than Carrots or Sticks

feelings of empathy, Ms. Herrera intentionally spends time asking them questions about the emotional state of the characters (“Why is the beige crayon sad?” “Why is the peach crayon feeling embarrassed?”). Her students study the pictures and listen again to the text to locate evidence of each character’s feelings. Ms. Herrera then turns to developing her students’ ability to take empathetic action by asking further questions (“What could you do to help the beige crayon?” “Is there something you could do that would end the peach crayon’s embarrassment?”).

The students at the middle and high school where we work learn about the “helping” curriculum first identified by Sapon-Shevin (1998). Classrooms that follow the helping curriculum feature a poster with the following four questions:

1. Did you ask for help today when you needed it?
2. Did you offer help to another when you recognized that he or she needed it?
3. Did you accept help when it was offered to you?
4. If you declined help, did you do so politely?

When you think about it, adults use these four helping behaviors in their professional and personal lives all the time. However, it takes sophisticated communication skills and highly attuned social and emotional skills to enact them properly. Helping behaviors are among the “soft” skills that require social intelligence and that are as important as “hard” skills such as technical knowledge for mastering content.

The mathematics classroom is a perfect place for students to develop soft skills to match their hard skills. Students in math classes confront academic challenges that can leave them feeling dispirited or frustrated. For that reason, the math department at our school has spearheaded collaborative learning initiatives and collaborative assessments that require students to regularly engage in help-seeking and help-granting behaviors (Frey, Fisher, & Everlove, 2009). Such an