118 | Better Than Carrots or Sticks

strong reactions among students and teachers alike, formal classroom circles should be run by trained facilitators rather than by the teachers of the students involved. In fact, it might be the teacher rather than the students who needs time to unwind before moving forward. When trained facilitators lead formal classroom circles, teachers are free to express their feelings and listen carefully to their students. If teachers lead the circles on their own, students might see the process as self-serving, and any resulting decisions might lack student buy-in. It’s easy for teachers to gather all their students in a circle and lecture them about their behavior for 15 minutes, but it may not be helpful—some students will likely tune out, and others will think they’re being blamed for something they didn’t do. Most important, this kind of approach fails to shift students from thinking of their own interests to considering the welfare of the group. We want students to see teachers as members of the learning community, and scolding only reinforces an us-versus-them mindset. Meaningful discussion, by contrast, builds a community mindset.

Every classroom should have a talking piece for regulating the flow of the discussion as well as norms regarding its use. Following are the four norms we use for employing the talking piece in a formal circle:  
1. “One voice”—a reminder that one person is to speak at a time  
2. “Listen with mind and heart”—a reminder to actively consider what others have to say  
3. “Safe space”—a reminder to maintain confidentiality  
4. “Make space”—a reminder not to dominate the discussion or crowd out the voices of others  

It’s a good idea for norms to be posted somewhere for the facilitator to use in opening the circle or in case the discussion breaks down.

A few years ago, a teacher’s cell phone was stolen from her class during third period. Upset, she decided to meet with Dominique to share her emotions and ask him to facilitate a formal circle with her