class. You might initially think that she was calling to get her child into the GT class; this was not the case, as the parent felt that an on-level class with differentiation was the appropriate placement for her daughter. Instead, the parent reported that, since the addition of the GT classes at fourth grade, Rosa had experienced many changes, particularly in the way she perceived student expectations. Rosa perceived that all of the smart kids must be in the other two classes and therefore she was not viewed as capable by the teachers in her school. Rosa’s view (and perhaps this is shared by the teachers at her school) was that her teachers did not have very high expectations of her, as well as of the other students in her class. She did not believe that she could get smarter, not even if she tried her very best. Rosa had been put on a track and this track caused her to believe that she would not have access to different, more challenging instructional opportunities. For the students not grouped in the GT class, the message was loud and clear: “We do not expect much from you.”

The parents of some “gifted” students might argue that GT classes at the elementary level should not only exist but be exclusive due to perceptions that other students, who may not have yet developed their ability fully, may slow down their own children. They believe that policies and philosophies should be customized to those students who learn quickly, were born “smart,” or have already “arrived.” The GT policies in many school districts contribute to a fixed mindset mentality. These policies cause students, parents, and educators to believe that sorting kids at an early age is a good practice. It is not. Responding to the instructional needs of students at a young age is. Students need to continually be observed and evaluated through a lens of potential and possibilities. Educators must learn to recognize sparks and provide appropriate challenge. Children should have access to challenging instruction whenever they need it, at every grade level, in every content area.

With that said, there are a few elementary students who need an instructional setting that will allow them to further develop their gifts and talents. These are those “rare or uncommon” children that Dr. Worrell speaks of (Young, 2011). All students need an intellectual peer group. This is especially true when the student is an outlier in his or her abilities. Schools and systems do need to think about solutions for meeting the needs of students who lack an intellectual peer group in their neighborhood school.