other letters like, MMMMM; other times the middle letter was different, MMNMM. Even though the task sounds simple, once this is repeated several times, the brain can get sluggish, which is when people can begin to make mistakes.

Participants in the study wore a contraption on their head that recorded brain activity. Once a mistake occurs, within a quarter of a second, the brain makes two quick symbols. First, an initial response that something is not right, an “oh crap response,” according to Moser and his colleagues (2011). The next signal occurs when the person realizes the error and subsequently attempts to correct it. What the study found is that those who produced a bigger second signal—the signal that causes people to recognize the error then try to correct it—are the people who tend to learn from their mistakes. These are the people who can better redirect their thinking to saying, “OK, that wasn’t right; now let’s see what I need to do to correct it.” This group of people took the opportunity to learn from their errors.

When students consciously take the opportunity to learn from all of their errors, they will approach the unsuccessful task in a new way or with more effort. Students who believe that the negative outcome is based on their natural ability will often not bother to try harder after failure; it is then that we hear phrases like, “I am just not good at science,” “I will never be able to learn another language,” or “It doesn’t matter if I do it again, I will have the same results.”

Angel Perez, the dean of admission at Pitzer College in California, interviews many students who apply for admission to his institution and always asks potential students the same question, “What do you look forward to the most in college?” On one occasion, he heard a response that took him by surprise: “I look forward to the possibility of failure.” This potential student continued, “You see, my parents never let me fail, taking a more rigorous course or trying an activity I may not succeed in, they tell me, it will ruin my chances at college admission” (Perez, 2012, para. 2).

Learning to embrace failure is hardly easy; however, once again, if students learn more about their brain and how it works, failure is an easier pill to swallow. Students who internalize the understanding of the plasticity of the brain and the functional changes in the brain that occur when we learn can deal more constructively with setbacks. They are sometimes even