# CHAPTER 2

## WHAT ARE SOME WAYS TO BEGIN BUILDING A GROWTH MINDSET SCHOOL CULTURE?

> “I can learn and get smarter even when work is hard.”—Grade 4 student

The first stop along the path to building a growth mindset culture is to begin to build a school culture that values intellectual growth with a staff who has internalized the belief that intelligence can be cultivated. Ideally, every adult in the building must work toward adopting a mindset where he or she believes that with effort, motivation, perseverance, and the right menu of teaching strategies all students can achieve great things. School secretaries, building service workers, classroom aides, as well as teachers and administrators, should all commit to contribute to a growth school climate.

Professional development for all school personnel is the initial step toward this goal. It is important to first determine what belief systems are held by staff at the present time. Whether you are working independently toward this goal, with a grade level team, an entire staff, or school system, it is important to begin by reflecting about your own personal belief system regarding intelligence. Suggestions for professional development can be found on the following pages. In addition, I have developed a comprehensive training plan for schools to use that can be found in Appendix A.

### Step 1: Reflect and Preassess

Prior to a series of professional development sessions, teachers from a high-poverty, urban school district on the East Coast were asked to write down what they believed about intelligence using the worksheet in Figure 1.