If it is a midsized or large district, then creation of a center for these outliers or highly gifted students should be considered. Perhaps beginning at grades 4 and 5, classroom(s) could be set up in a central location for those students whose needs cannot be met at their local school. These centers could provide what these students need instructionally and offer opportunities to develop domain-specific strengths more deeply. They could also provide an intellectual peer group and should be staffed with teachers with endorsement or certification in gifted education. In addition, the social and emotional needs of these students cannot be ignored. It is imperative that a counselor is on staff who possesses the expertise in the social and emotional challenges that these outliers may face. These challenges include but are not limited to issues surrounding asynchronous development, overexcitabilities, and perfectionism.

Wherever students are being educated, differentiated, responsive teaching strategies should be in place as a range of background knowledge, opportunities, and abilities exist in these settings as well. I remember receiving a phone call from a principal who was concerned about a child placed in a gifted class. The child was falling behind, and the principal was considering removing him from the class. In order to gain more information, I began asking questions. One of the first questions that I asked was about differentiation—how the child did on preassessments. I also asked about the flexible grouping practices within the classroom. The principal responded with, “Didn’t you hear me? I said it was a GT class. We don’t differentiate in our GT classes.” That response spoke volumes to me about how some educators view classes with highly able learners … they treat everyone the same.

At the elementary level, the majority of students’ needs should be met in responsive, differentiated classrooms with flexible instructional groups. At the middle school level, the enrollment is typically larger and the probability of having an intellectual peer group is greater than elementary school; therefore, instructional choices should be available such as “Standard” and “Advanced,” “Accelerated,” “Enriched,” or “Honors” courses (note, no classes labeled “Gifted”). The expectation must exist that differentiated, responsive instruction will occur in all levels of courses. See Chapter 3 for an overview of ways to create differentiated, responsive instruction in all classrooms.