throughout the teaching and learning process. For example, if a teacher observes that some students do not grasp a concept, he or she can design a review activity to reinforce the concept or use a different instructional strategy to reteach it. (p. 4)

**formative assessment**  
checking for understanding during the learning process in order to modify instruction to improve understanding; this is an assessment for learning

Formative assessment is a reflective tool for a teacher. It should not be graded. It is a quick check to help the teacher become informed of where students are on the path to learning. Formative assessments help teachers find out who needs to be retaught, who is on track, and who needs enrichment and acceleration. If the majority of students do not have success, then teachers should do as Fisher and Frey (2007) noted: reflect on the way the material was taught, come up with a new way to present the material, and reteach it.

Formative assessment is also a checkpoint for student understanding. Teachers can use the data from formative assessments to keep groups fluid and flexible. If a child starts out in an on-level group and comprehends the material at a faster pace than his peer group, then the teacher should move the child to a group that will challenge him. Through ongoing assessment, students will be provided with more opportunities to access enriched learning opportunities.

Formative assessment does not have to be complicated. Keep it simple. The following are a few ideas for implementing formative assessment in your classroom:

- *Use questions for students to respond to orally.* During the course of instruction or on the way out of the door (in middle school and high school), ask students to respond to various questions regarding the learning that occurred during class. Make note of those students who have misunderstandings or have not yet grasped the learning. (This method can also help some students focus their attention during the learning if they know they will be asked about it during or after class.)