If you are in a position where you have spent a good amount of time and training toward building a growth mindset culture, then it is now time to evaluate how well you, your school, or your district is doing. How do you monitor and make sure that, in fact, the building staff is working toward this every day? One way is to establish Look-Fors, student and teacher behaviors that you will observe when you walk through any room in the school building. These behaviors should evidence the building of a growth mindset belief. (Sample Look-Fors can be found in Chapter 9.) Another option is to utilize Professional Learning Communities (PLCs). These groups should focus discussion around the progress toward a growth mindset culture. Set up alerts online so leaders of PLCs will be notified when new articles or studies are released that focus on neuroscience in education and growth mindset. Have the PLCs adopt books like Dweck’s or other popular titles (there are many listed in the Resources section) as book studies or book club selections. Reflecting on these readings together will help the groups change the way they think about intelligence.

Think about how students are placed in instructional groups and classes. Does the current student placement system contribute to a growth culture within the school? The following is an actual exchange of e-mails between a parent of an incoming ninth-grade student and the English department chair at the student’s receiving high school. Read this exchange through the lens of a growth mindset. (Names and specific details have been changed or omitted in order to protect the guilty!)

Dear English Department Chair,

We are thrilled that our daughter, Emma, will be attending Great Hills High School next year. We wanted to share with you some information about her interest in literature. During her eighth-grade year, her love of literature has exploded! This is due, in part, to a great literature experience she has had this year. We have seen Emma dive deeply into the symbolism of each book she reads—she asks questions, interprets, analyzes characters’ words and actions, foreshadows, and wants to discuss each and every book that she reads. Her writing has also shown great improvement over the last few months. We are thrilled about her