Rather than overusing the term gifted, consider using other words or phrases such as “high-potential learners” or “highly motivated.” Everyone has potential that needs to be nurtured so consider overusing the word “potential” (not “possible”) rather than the word “gifted.” Also, it’s important to note that the GT label becomes unimportant when students’ instructional needs are being met consistently. Schools must adopt a differentiated, responsive instruction model as described in Chapter 3. Educators must work toward developing the talent in each and every child. If the needs of the students are being responded to within the course of instruction, then the need for a separate grouping of perceived GT students becomes less important.

## Early Ability Grouping

Thankfully, the majority of school districts across the country do not begin to subjectively sort kids into separate, self-contained GT classes in every neighborhood school at the elementary level. Those that do are providing a disservice to their young students, both those in the gifted class and those who are not. For the elementary students placed in a gifted class, the situation perpetuates a fixed mindset—“I am smart, therefore I better not fail”—and in many cases, these students will avoid opportunities for intellectual risk taking just as Debbie Silver described her fourth-grade son doing. What message does this structure send to the students not placed in the gifted class?

Here’s one example of the negative messages such a structure creates that I experienced. At a suburban school, three classes of grade 4 students were formed. Two of these classes were called “GT 4th Grade”; the final class was for all of the other students. Many savvy parents advocated for their students to be in a GT class and would do whatever they could to get on the “GT train.” This district had a subjective process in place that did not include a cognitive assessment and weighed already developed ability heavily. The curriculum for this class was separate than the on-level class in the four major content areas: reading, math, social studies, and science.

The parent of one of the students in the on-level class called the school system’s GT office to share her daughter, Rosa’s, experience in the on-level