Giving the same summative assessment (assessment of the learning), performance task, or product assignment is not an option when working with different instructional groups. The assessment must match the learning that has taken place for each group or, in some cases, an individual student. If students will be demonstrating understanding through a product, then make sure choices are offered. Grades should be based on mastery of the content that was tailored to the student. If grades were given solely on mastery of on-grade-level curriculum, then students could potentially earn an A after the preassessment, before any instruction even occurred. In this scenario, a child has put forth no effort and yet is rewarded with an A. It is this kind of situation that contributes to the development of a fixed mindset. Students begin to feel that they must always look smart, that putting forth effort shows weakness, and that they are expected to know things without trying. After all, their whole lives they have been told they are “smart,” and if you are smart, everything should come easy, right? Wrong. Students must be challenged appropriately. Be sure that your assessments, both formative and summative, are differentiated for each group.

> **summative assessment**  
> assessment of learning that typically occurs at the end of a unit of study

## A Final Thought About Differentiated, Responsive Instruction

As mentioned previously, the process described above is what I refer to as front-end differentiated, responsive instruction. It is about respecting and responding to what a child needs when she walks in the door and as she makes her way through the learning. Too often, differentiation occurs on the back end of instruction. The teacher figures out at the end of a unit or learning sequence that a student needs more. The “more” is too often interpreted as more of the same or more papers or “activities” rather than more responsive instruction. Provide opportunities for students to be