patients, the brain begins the rewiring process almost immediately so that patients learn to speak and become mobile again. (However, it takes the hard work and effort put forth in therapy for stroke patients to fully regain what they’ve lost.) Neuroplasticity works both ways; it creates new connections and eliminates connections that are not used very often.

**neuroplasticity**  
the ability of the brain to change, adapt, and “rewire” itself throughout our entire life

Understanding and believing in neuroplasticity is an important part of a growth mindset belief. Malcolm Gladwell, author of *Outliers: The Story of Success*, related the idea of neuroplasticity back to academic success when he discussed how some children are at a disadvantage academically simply because they don’t have the opportunities to learn at the same levels of their peers during the summer months. He shared the following,

It turns out that summer vacation is a massive disadvantage for poorer kids. Richer kids get a lot of help over the summer. Their homes are filled with books and things that advance their knowledge; they go to camp and have all these other activities. But a poor family can’t do that. To improve that, we as a society would have to provide it in the first place. During the school year, poor kids actually outlearn richer kids. Then they stall over the summer. (Newman, 2008, para. 5)

This is an example of how neuroplasticity eliminates or weakens connections—in this case, the connections go unused for the children whose families cannot afford academic programming during the summer while the students who are provided with such opportunities during the summer can maintain their learning.

We now know so much more about the neurological aspects of the brain that it cannot help but inform the way we approach learning, instruction, and motivation. It directly affects teachers’ beliefs and expectations about student potential and achievement. It is when educators and children (as