The belief that intelligence is malleable and can be developed is not a new concept. However, the idea that intelligence can be changed and grown in both children and adults has seen more popularity in recent years thanks to the work of Stanford University professor of psychology, Dr. Carol Dweck, and her 2006 book, *Mindset: The New Psychology of Success*, which looks at the concept of “growth mindsets” and “fixed mindsets” among successful people as far-ranging as athletes Alex Rodriguez and John McEnroe, CEOs Lou Gerstner and Ken Lay, and teachers Marva Collins and Rafe Esquith. Dweck’s research and development of the fixed and growth mindset theory has also contributed to a major shift in thinking about student learning and intelligence.

Dweck (2006) described a belief system that asserts that intelligence is a malleable quality and can be developed—a *growth mindset*. Learners with a growth mindset believe that they can learn just about anything. It might take some struggle and some failure but they understand that with effort and perseverance, they can succeed. The focus of a growth mindset individual is on learning, not on looking smart. An educator with a growth mindset believes that with effort and hard work from the learner, all students can demonstrate significant growth and therefore all students deserve opportunities for challenge. Add to this belief an effective teacher armed with instructional tools that differentiate, respond to learner’s needs, and nurture critical thinking processes, and you have a recipe for optimum student learning.

> **growth mindset**  
> a belief system that suggests that one’s intelligence can be grown or developed with persistence, effort, and a focus on learning

Dweck also presents a different belief system about intelligence; the belief that intelligence is something you are born with and the level of intelligence cannot be changed—a *fixed mindset*. A person with a fixed mindset might truly believe that he has a predetermined amount of intelligence, skills, or talents. This belief system is problematic at both ends of the continuum. For those students who struggle or do not perceive