up your disagree sign. Don’t worry about what others are doing; I want to know what *you* think!” Take note on who agrees and disagrees with the following statements:
- Everyone can learn new things. (Growth Mindset Belief)
- Some kids are born smarter than others. (Fixed Mindset Belief)
- We can change how smart we are. (Growth Mindset Belief)

We expect that all students should agree with the statement “Everyone can learn new things.” What needs to be noted are the responses to “We can change how smart we are” and “Some kids are born smarter than others.” If students agree with the latter statement, then chances are they have a fixed mindset when it comes to their own potential. As discussed in Chapter 1, we found that the older the child, the more likely that he or she had a fixed mindset in some aspect of learning. You may also want to interview some students privately to find out about their mindset, particularly if you suspect the answer was not authentic. Or if you feel the need to make the reactions more anonymous, have students put their heads on their desks and then provide a thumbs up sign when they agree and a thumbs down when they disagree.

Once you’ve preassessed the students you’re working with for both their knowledge of the brain and their thoughts on mindset, you can implement the sample learning tasks I describe in the next few sections.

## Sample Learning Task #1: The Brain Is Like a Sponge (All Grade Levels)

“I know that my brain grows like a sponge and I have to exercise my brain like my body.”—Grade 4 student

This learning task utilizes the Guess Box Strategy, based on the Concept Attainment Model developed by Jerome Bruner. This model is a teaching approach that helps students develop skills for *inductive* and *deductive* thinking. This can be done while learning content in any field in a constructive and meaningful way. A box in which the contents are unknown is a good vehicle for concept attainment and critical thinking. Prior to the lesson, set up one wide column and one thin column on the board or chart