Perhaps even, you’re a parent reading this book, whose children do not attend a school where a growth mindset environment is practiced. You’re looking for ways to bring up the topic with your child’s school. I would advise starting with the classroom teacher and personalizing your conversation to your own child’s performance. Here are some suggestions about what to say during your conversation with your child’s teacher:

1. *Always start with a positive.* Tell the teacher something that your child loves about her class. “Bella loves the way you read out loud. It is so animated and engaging, it has really piqued her interest in reading.”
2. *Share what brings out the best at home.* Include a relationship between resilience, motivation, effort, or other aspects you want to be addressed. Show how this changes the child’s performance. Be as specific as possible. For example, “I have found that Bella really responds well when I praise her persistence when working on a homework assignment.”
3. *Share what does not work.* Again, keep your own tenets in mind. For example, “I noticed that when I remark on her final product instead of the process/effort she used to get there that she is not as receptive to suggestions”
4. *Establish the partnership.* Make the teacher part of the plan of action that incorporates your beliefs, as well as his or her practices (and both of your best interests for the child). For example, “I would love for us to come up with some common language to use with her so that she will hear a consistent message and work to the best of her ability.”

Even though these examples do not specifically use the terms “growth and fixed mindsets,” they still philosophically address the elements of a growth mindset. Others cannot change a person’s belief system; we can only present ways to allow others to reflect on their beliefs and expectations. Even if a teacher does not have a growth mindset belief system, minimally, the praise language that is used can make a small contribution to a growth mindset culture.

Another area that a parent may want to focus on is access. If a parent feels that his or her child is not having access to challenging learning opportunities due to low expectations from the teacher, this should be