# CHAPTER 5

## HOW CAN STUDENTS LEARN FROM FAILURE?

> “Failure is necessary for success. The more we try to avoid it the less successful we are. Failure should be embraced not avoided”—Garrett, Grade 12 student

As a parent, it is always difficult to see one of my children fail, especially if much effort was put into accomplishing the task. Think about the child who dedicates herself to studying for a test, working on a paper, or practicing a skill and then the reward is failure. Reward? Yes, failure can be a reward, for it is through failure that we can learn the most. There is a wonderful scene in Disney’s *Meet the Robinsons* movie where Lewis creates an invention that combines peanut butter and jelly and it fails. As he buries his face in his hands and apologizes, the adults happily yell, “You’ve failed! From failure, you learn, from success … not so much.”

### Responding to Failure

The way we respond to failures and mistakes depends on our mindset. When we truly believe that intelligence is malleable, it is then that we realize that when we make a mistake—when we fail—we need to approach the task differently and/or put more effort into it. On the other hand, those who hold a fixed view of intelligence typically do not attempt to learn from their errors. Jason S. Moser of Michigan State University (who collaborated on his study with Hans S. Schroder, Carrie Heeter, Tim P. Moran, and Yu-Hao Lee) wanted some insight as to how people react to failure. These researchers gave participants a task that was purposefully designed for them to experience an error. Study subjects were asked to name the middle letter of a five-letter series. Sometimes the middle letter was the same as all of the