If students disagree, discuss the information that was gained with each attribute and come to a consensus. Strategies like Guess Box contribute to a growth mindset culture. Students who surface with well-thought-out questions can often be those students who may not shine in more traditional areas of school.

Once students are familiar with the process of the Guess Box activity, use it to facilitate new learning about the brain using the Guess Box: Let’s Get Your Brain Working! lesson described in the next section.

## Guess Box: Let’s Get Your Brain Working!

Put a dry, flat sponge in a guess box. If possible, use a flattened “pop up” sponge that expands or changes shape when it gets wet. Set up the chart paper with two columns: “Attributes of a ______” and a question mark. Tell the students:

> This is something that comes in a lot of different colors so you do not have to ask any questions about color. (You may want to add that many are yellow.) This is something that you might use when you clean.

Then allow the children to ask questions to try to determine what’s in the box. After students have asked many questions about the mystery object in the box, the chart should list the attributes that helped students come to the conclusion that a sponge was in the box. Figure 13 includes examples of the charts from kindergarten, first-, and second-grade classrooms I worked with. These attributes are listed as a result of the questions that the students asked.

**Figure 13.** Attributes of a sponge listed as part of the Guess Box: Let’s Get Your Brain Working! learning task.

| Kindergarten | First Grade | Second Grade |
|--------------|-------------|--------------|
| Use it to clean<br>Many are yellow<br>It is in your house<br>Usually in the bathroom<br>Usually in the kitchen | Use it to clean<br>It is usually a rectangle<br>You can find it in the kitchen<br>It can clean a hard floor<br>A person makes it work | Use it to clean<br>It is usually a rectangular prism<br>Use it to wash dishes<br>It has six faces |