If students believe that they will, with effort and persistence, be successful in environments of challenging instruction, they are more likely to succeed. This is validated by findings in the NAGC *Unlocking Emergent Talent* report: “If students believe that they are welcome in advanced courses and teachers expect them to do well, they are more likely to bounce back from setbacks with increased effort and persistence” (Olszewski-Kubilius & Clarenbach, 2012, p. 17).

## Your Philosophy for Gifted Education

Reflect on the GT philosophy in your own school or school district. If you do not currently have a philosophy, consider building one that includes the following:

- A conception of giftedness that emphasizes potential and possibilities. Use words and phrases like: access, potential, develop, nurture, motivation, all students, responsive, beliefs, talent development, and expectations.
- Curriculum development that embeds preassessment and formative assessment, as well as practices and strategies that develop and observe talent/potential including critical and creative thinking.
- Identification processes for recognition of potential that are inclusive, use a variety of criteria, use local norms, are ongoing, and do not rely on referrals or nominations—data should be collected on all students, not just those who are referred. This process should embed direct instructional implications and not be a “stand-alone” process.
- Recognition of what students need and how these needs will be responded to both instructionally as well as social-emotionally. The GT label is unimportant, the philosophy should be about responding to academic needs.
- Differentiated/responsive instruction that always allows for the possibility of enrichment and topic/content acceleration for all students. Remember, it is about access for all, not just those with a label.