- Recognition of intellectual potential is not entirely dependent on performance in reading/writing/math. Potential is also recognized through discussion, questions, and responses.
- Teacher provides many opportunities for students to think for themselves.

**Questioning**  
- Students are given many opportunities to respond to and ask higher level questions.

**Higher Level Thinking**  
- Instructional strategies that nurture/promote higher level thinking are imbedded in everyday instruction (concept attainment/formation, interpretation, reasoning, problem solving, evaluating).

**Acceleration and Enrichment**  
- Individuals or groups of students are given opportunities to excel beyond grade-level expectations across content areas.  
- Opportunities for enrichment occur through application of and reasoning with content, guest speakers, mentors, and technology.  
- Teacher supplements or modifies curriculum to facilitate high-level learning.  
- Instruction consists of advanced content and differentiated strategies to reflect the intellectual processes of high-potential learners.  
- Above-grade-level materials are available to students across content areas.  
- Students are given opportunities for in-depth study/research.

**Classroom Environment**  
- Intellectual risk taking is evident.  
- A growth mindset class culture exists.  
- Learning stations and/or anchor activities are evident in classroom.  
- Room arrangement is conducive to group work.  
- A variety of student work samples are displayed.  
- A wealth of resources at many levels are available to students.

To work toward a growth mindset school culture is a commitment that all stakeholders must make. Be cognizant of new educators joining your staff and have a plan for getting them on board with your growth mindset goals. Continually monitor and reflect on practices that are having an impact and those that need to be improved upon. Would visitors to your school pick up on the persistence and effort that your students are putting forth? Are more students embracing challenging tasks? Are teachers using language that acknowledges what students do rather than who they are? Are students using growth mindset language and talking about neural connections? Are expectations high for all students?

