be so proud of yourself. We are proud of you!

So the next time you are ready to praise your child, stop and think about how to use that opportunity to praise his or her effort instead of accomplishments.

## Second Newsletter Installment

In the last installment of [name of school newsletter], parents were given suggestions about ways to praise their children. Research suggests that parents should think twice about praising our kids for being “smart” or “talented,” because this may foster a *fixed mindset*. Instead, if we encourage our kids’ efforts and acknowledge their persistence and hard work, then we will support their development of a *growth mindset*. Children with a growth mindset believe that with effort and persistence they can learn and achieve in school. A growth mindset will better equip them to persevere and pick themselves up when things do not go their way. Parents should also examine their own belief systems. Do you have a growth mindset? Do you believe that with effort, persistence, and motivation your children can achieve their goals?

Dr. Carol Dweck, an educational researcher states,

> Parents should not shield their children from challenges, mistakes, and struggles. Instead, parents should teach children to love challenges. They can say things like “This is hard. What fun!” or “This is too easy. It’s no fun.” They should teach their children to embrace mistakes, “Oooh, here’s an interesting mistake. What should we do next?” And they should teach them to love effort: “That was a fantastic struggle. You really stuck to it and made great progress” or “This will take a lot of effort—boy, will it be fun.”

Some parents need to work at having a growth mindset. It takes time and practice, but it is well worth it when you see the difference that it makes in your children!