they are functioning on. Students who are from culturally, linguistically, and/or ethnically diverse populations, special education students, and yes, even sometimes those students who demonstrate challenging behaviors are often not provided with rigorous instructional opportunities. These students would benefit tremendously from ongoing, critical thinking experiences, yet these are the students who typically get the fewest critical thinking opportunities thanks to a fixed mindset from the point of view of the adult or the students themselves. By providing students with many opportunities to develop their cognitive abilities through critical thinking experiences, it impacts the child’s view of herself and contributes to a growth mindset.

# The Critical Thinking Growth Mindset Project

I was anxious to test my theory about how cognitive abilities can be changed through critical thinking experiences in schools with high poverty and lower achievement and developed a program that would put it to the test. Thus, the Critical Thinking Growth Mindset Project was born. This project involved six Title I schools, a total of 53 grade 2 and grade 3 classrooms. All grade 2 and grade 3 teachers, as well as some English for Speakers of Other Languages (ESOL) teachers in these Title I schools attended ongoing professional development that focused on building a growth mindset culture in their classroom. The professional development also included critical thinking professional development sessions. Part of the critical thinking professional learning sessions highlighted places where critical thinking processes were already embedded in their curriculum. Consideration of the critical thinking that is embedded in the Common Core State Standards for Mathematical Practice was also highlighted. Several of these eight mathematical practices complemented the goals of the project, with practice #1 and #2 being the most emphasized.

- Practice #1: Make sense of problems and persevere in solving them.
- Practice #2: Reason abstractly and quantitatively.
- Practice #3: Construct viable arguments and critique the reasoning of others.
- Practice #5: Use appropriate tools strategically.