observational records that capture evidence of student understanding at a range of levels from concrete to more abstract.

If a paper-and-pencil preassessment is chosen, then it is important to think through how to develop assessment tools to best capture the understanding of the skill, concept, and content. In Differentiation and the Brain: How Neuroscience Supports the Learner-Friendly Classroom (Sousa & Tomlinson, 2011), the importance of providing multiple means of representation and expression when developing a preassessment is emphasized. When appropriate, be sure to include both words and pictures in directions and read the directions out loud. Students should also be provided with opportunities to communicate their understanding in various ways. Don’t squeeze too many skills or concepts into one preassessment. For example, each math topic or unit can have its own preassessment; it is not appropriate to preassess for an entire year or semester. Besides, how would you preview all of those concepts and skills?

Ideally, preassessments should be built into the curriculum so that teachers do not have to develop them with each new topic or unit and so they can be consistent across classrooms and schools. With the transition to the Common Core State Standards taking place in many states, this is an ideal time to make that happen. Regardless of who is creating the assessment, the following should be considered during the development of preassessments:

1. The preassessment must measure understanding only in the areas that are specifically being assessed. In other words, if a child’s understanding of U.S. history or a student’s knowledge of Shakespeare is being assessed, spelling, grammar, and punctuation should not count. Spelling, grammar, and punctuation have nothing to do with a student’s understanding of history or Shakespeare. Only if you were specifically assessing spelling, grammar, or punctuation would you consider those errors.

2. A preassessment should include application of the skill, topic, or concept and at least one above-level, or accelerated, indicator. You may be surprised at how deep and how far the understanding is for some students.

3. When configuring a preassessment, use different formats, allowing students to demonstrate understanding from recognizing an example