perform” made more learning gains than students who were bright but not as motivated (Blue, 2012).

## Changing How Students React to Failure

When students fail or have many errors, they may look at this as a sign of weakness and incompetence within themselves, which can actually lead to more failure. They may begin to avoid anything that looks remotely challenging so that they do not have to face failure. On the other hand, if students look at failure or errors as a way to get feedback or reflect on areas that need more attention, they possess an underlying belief that they will, with effort, persistence, and help (that they’ve sought out themselves) eventually grasp the learning.

Every time teachers help students with an error, they should seize this opportunity to help students interpret the errors as “data” that will help them later, rather than looking at themselves through a lens of low ability. For example, if a student is struggling with solving a math word problem, a teacher should ask the student what strategies she has used and brainstorm some alternative strategies that can be used. Some argue that children from middle- and upper-class homes do not get enough opportunities to fail thanks to well meaning, but highly overprotective adults who catch them before they fall. This is a fine line to walk for parents because if they chose not to step in to prevent failure, then kids may not feel supported and valued.

In 2012, a Canadian teacher was suspended for giving zeros to students who did not turn in work or for tests that were not taken. His school had a strict “no zeroes” policy. He, in turn, believed that students needed to be held accountable for their actions (“Edmonton teacher who gave 0s,” 2012). In his 2012 book, *How Children Succeed: Grit, Curiosity, and the Hidden Power of Character*, Paul Tough claimed that grit and persistence are the biggest indicators of student success. He shared that we should be developing a sense of resiliency in the face of failure among our children. The Canadian teacher and Tough both recognized that failure is an important life lesson. However, when faced with failure, it is imperative that