my prompting. Can you imagine how his attitude may have been different in this situation if he did ascribe to the belief that all children have the potential to experience success?

It is all about beliefs and expectations. One way that contributes greatly to both children and adults embracing this belief system is by learning about the brain and all of its possibilities (again, see Chapter 8 for learning tasks that both children—and adults!—can take on to learn more about the brain). Neuroscience has grown by leaps and bounds in the last several years and educating ourselves and our students about the brain has a huge impact on student effort and motivation.

## Why Mindset Matters in Schools

Carol Dweck (2010) conducted a study of middle school math students in New York City. The students showed positive growth when they believed that intelligence is malleable and when they learned about their brains. Studies have shown that many students enter middle school with the belief that we are all born with a specific, set-in-stone intelligence level or a fixed mindset (Dweck, 2010). Similarly, it was shared with me that in one Washington, DC, suburban school working on changing its students’ mindsets, it was determined through student feedback and interviews that more than 60% of the children entering grade 6 believed that they were born with specific academic strengths and weaknesses and that they could not change. Based on this statistic, I asked myself, at what point do children transition to this kind of mindset?

This prompted me to undertake my own studies. I began collecting data in kindergarten classes. In the fall, kindergarten students were surveyed to capture their beliefs about intelligence. In the two classrooms I surveyed—a classroom made up of high-poverty, diverse students and one with primarily middle-class students—100% percent of the children demonstrated a growth mindset. They came to school in kindergarten thinking that they could learn and be successful. They were enthusiastic, full of promise, and ready to absorb social and intellectual knowledge!

With that optimistic data in hand, I moved on to a first-grade classroom; again, students were surveyed to capture their thinking about intelligence. In