well as their parents) learn about the brain and all of its potential and when they witness the impact that it has on learning that mindsets can begin to shift (see Chapter 8 for a discussion of how you can teach children about the brain).

## Intelligence and Measuring Intelligence

Is it possible to increase your IQ? The University of Michigan partnered with the University of Bern to conduct a study that looked at the possibility of increasing IQ. This 2008 study (see Palmer, 2011) required participants to continually play a computerized memory game that involved remembering visual patterns. Each time a different pattern appeared, the participants heard a letter from the alphabet in their headphones. They were asked to respond when either the visual pattern on the screen or the letters they were hearing in their headphones were repeated. The time between the repeating of patterns and letters became longer as the game became more difficult. The researchers found that as the participants had practice and got better at the game, scores on IQ-style tests increased (Palmer, 2011).

This research and other studies like it contribute to the understanding of malleable intelligence, a key factor in growth mindset and a concept many educators struggle to understand. In general, educators do not have a lot of background in cognitive science. I recently asked several groups of educators, “What do cognitive abilities tests/IQ tests measure?” Without exception, there was hesitancy in responding to the question; after giving sufficient wait time, a few responses were shared: “a child’s capability,” “how smart they are,” and “their innate ability.” What surprised me more than their responses was the observation that so many of these teachers and administrators just could not answer the question. There are many times that educators are in situations where data is shared about a student, and that data often includes cognitive scores from gifted and talented screening processes, special education screening processes, and/or IQ tests. Who knew so many educators really have no idea what these assessments actually measure?

Cognitive ability tests measure *developed ability*. Therefore, if a child has never had an opportunity to develop reasoning processes, the outcome of one of these assessments would not be noteworthy. David Lohman (2002),