It is important to learn and respect what students already bring to the classroom. However, before jumping into developing your own or using a ready-made preassessment, an important precursor must take place. You must allow students the opportunity to first “preview” the content being assessed. I know what some of you are thinking: “If I do that, it will be too easy” or “That’s cheating!” Not so. In fact, previewing provides an opportunity for students to activate background knowledge and previous learning prior to a preassessment so that the results will be a better reflection of what they understand. Imagine that you’re getting ready to sit down and read a new book. About 5 or 10 minutes into the storyline, something is triggered in your mind and you begin to think that perhaps you have read this book before. It starts feeling familiar to you, but the title did not ring a bell. Or maybe, you pick up the book at the library or bookstore and read the blurb on the back cover, and after doing so, remember that you have read it. That blurb activated background knowledge for you; it triggered your memory and served as a preview to the book. It is then that you have an “Aha!” moment and better recall the content of the book.

Previewing should not be a long drawn-out lesson: 5 minutes or less is usually enough time to activate prior knowledge. A preview could be as simple as telling students, “Today I would like to see what you know about rounding numbers. Let me show you a few first.” Then, proceed to do a few examples on the board. The word “rounding” on a preassessment may not be familiar or trigger any past learning, but after that quick warm-up, lots of students will remember and be ready to show what they know about rounding. Other ways to preview include questioning, watching a short video, interpreting a picture, and listening to a poem or short story with discussion. It can be anything that will trigger previous learning on a topic. What is interesting is that sometimes a preview is all that some students might need to learn a new skill or concept.

The impact of previewing before preassessment became very clear for one sixth-grade English teacher. She was preparing a preassessment on figurative language for two different sections of sixth-grade English. For one of her classes, she showed a 3-minute animated video that she found online. This video was shown prior to the preassessment and reviewed common devices used in figurative language: simile, metaphor, and personification. After viewing the video she then asked her class to complete a paper-and-