authors suggest that these domain-specific strengths should be the areas that educators help develop further, even if this means introducing typical high school content in middle school and middle school content in elementary school.

Thinking about the research noted above, educators and parents must be careful about throwing around the gifted and talented (GT) label. First of all, one could argue that all children possess “gifts” and/or “talents” in a myriad of traditional and nontraditional areas. When educators choose to use the term *gifted*, it should be used in moderation. Perhaps when a student reaches the stage of eminence (Subotnik et al., 2012) or when the child is an outlier within his age peer group and his instructional needs are so far beyond what is typically available that a very different instructional setting is needed, then the gifted label may be applied.

In a 2011 interview with University of California at Berkeley researcher, Frank Worrell, he described giftedness as something that is “rare or uncommon.” He expanded on this by explaining,

> A child of four who can write decent poetry may be considered a gifted writer, whereas the same quality of poetry being produced by an adolescent would not be considered gifted. The four-year old’s performance is rare even compared to other outstanding four year olds, but poetry writing among adolescents is too common among adolescents for merely decent poetry to make the grade. An adolescent would need to produce critically acclaimed poetry to be considered gifted. Similarly, a student beginning an undergraduate degree at age 13 may be considered gifted whereas an 18-year-old beginning a college degree is not considered gifted. Finally, only a small number of individuals get drafted to national sports leagues every year, but we typically only consider the top draft picks as the gifted individuals, despite the fact that being drafted is itself a rare phenomenon.

In sum, the term, *gifted* is applied to accomplishments that are rare and superior even when compared to others who have made outstanding accomplishments in a domain. (Young, 2011, para. 5–6)