Just like many educators, parents typically do not have a conceptual understanding of what happens to the brain when learning new things. Educate parents about neural connections so that they can be aware of the importance of practice and persistence. Having the parents participate in some of the student learning experiences that are included in Chapter 8 is also an effective and engaging practice. Students might even be encouraged to take home the materials they create as part of these learning tasks and share them with their parents, explaining to them how their brains work.

Some parents learn best through interactive experiences or discussions on topics. Websites that include videos of neural connections can be found in the Resources section. Parents may also be interested in picking up one of the books in the Resources section, like Dweck’s (2006) *Mindset*, Pink’s (2009) *Drive*, or Tough’s (2012) *How Children Succeed*—all of which are written in a reader-friendly tone, for use in a PTA workshop or book club.

Using popular video clips as a catalyst for getting the conversation started with parents has also proved effective. One especially effective film clip is the interview scene from *The Pursuit of Happyness*. This is the scene where Chris Gardner persuades an interview panel to hire him even though he is wearing a coat with no shirt. Ask parents to observe the verbal and nonverbal actions from Chris Gardner, as well as the businessmen conducting the interview. Focus the discussion on evidence of fixed or growth mindset from the people in the scenes, especially the notion of persistence.

## How Can Parents Communicate a Growth Mindset Message to Teachers?

Many parents naturally embrace a growth mindset mentality as simply a part of who they are themselves. Long before the advent of the terms “fixed mindset” and “growth mindset,” some parents valued their child’s effort and perseverance more than outcome. The conundrum that some of these parents face is that the message is not the same in school. Teachers, counselors, and school administrators could give parents ideas about how to communicate the growth mindset message to a teacher who doesn’t subscribe to a similar mindset about success and failure as they do.