All teachers were asked to record any instruction that focused on building a growth mindset culture, teaching students about the brain, and critical thinking using an electronic implementation tracker. Students were responsible for keeping track of the games they played and the levels they attained using an individual game tracker.

As a result of adding the specifically chosen reasoning games to the project, an outcome surfaced that was unexpected. The addition of the games did something more than build the reasoning abilities of these students; the reasoning and problem solving games contributed to a mindset shift in the teachers and, in some cases, the students as well. Many teachers reported that they saw potential in students that they would have never seen without the games. Some of the students who spoke little English flourished when the games came out. Some students who were functioning below grade level showed great strength in reasoning through playing these games. Teachers became more reflective about their own mindsets, viewed students differently, and raised expectations for many students. The games became an unexpected vehicle for building growth mindsets in the teachers and the students. As Holly, one of the third-grade ESOL teachers, reported:

> I first taught the game to my struggling ESOL students, giving them plenty of time to become familiar with the game and to formulate strategies for problem solving. Once they were comfortable and conversant about their strategies, I sent them out into the classroom to “teach” the rest of the class how to play. This was a powerful tool for their language development, as well as their self-esteem. These games contributed greatly to the growth mindset culture being developed in the class.

The games, in partnership with growth mindset lessons, also appeared to increase motivation for students. About 4 weeks into the project, I was visiting a classroom to demonstrate how neurons connected every time the students learned something new. After the lesson, the teacher was going right into math instructional time and had partnered students together to work with the games while she worked with a small group of students at her table. I decided to walk around this second-grade classroom and ask the students some questions as they played their reasoning games. With their