thread becomes stronger and stronger until the learning is mastered. Now, that weak, thin piece of thread has the strength of a thick, strong, rope. In order to strengthen these neural connections for students, it is important for teachers to constantly make connections to prior knowledge and experiences. The more connections that are made during a learning sequence, the more physical changes occur in the brain by developing and strengthening neural paths. (Sample learning tasks for students can be found in Chapter 8.)

Both educators and students must recognize that a new neural pathway is like walking through an unexplored forest for the first time. The more frequently the path is used, the fewer the barriers and obstacles that stand in the way. Eventually a clear path is created. That new path represents a clear understanding of the content being taught.

## Step 5: Teach Students About the Brain

Neuroscience is not a typical area of study in elementary and middle school curriculum and not often found in high school science with the exception of a chapter or unit embedded in biology classes. So how do educators find the time to teach students about their brain? Probably one of the most important things to realize is that this is not about just teaching a few lessons. It is an area that must be revisited and built upon over time. It is about introducing and explicitly teaching students, then routinely revisiting the concept of malleable intelligence so that students realize that intelligence is not about a fixed number, a grade on a paper, or a report card. Students must understand that intelligence is constantly changing based on effort, persistence, and motivation. They will soon realize that intelligence is something that grows as you use it and languishes if you don’t.

More and more studies are surfacing about the importance of teaching neuroscience. In 2012, Marshall and Comalli published their study, “Young Children’s Changing Conceptualizations of Brain Function: Implications for Teaching Neuroscience in Early Elementary Settings” in the *Early Education and Development* journal. Their work consisted of a two-part study of children ages 4–14. The goal of the first part of the study was to determine what exactly these children already knew about the brain. The results