Another way to introduce teachers to the idea of mindset is to talk about how one’s emotions can be changed based on one’s thinking, attitude, and behaviors. Andrew Weil, a doctor, and author of the 2011 book *Spontaneous Happiness: A New Path to Emotional Well-Being*, pointed to studies that show not only that can intelligence be developed, but emotions such as happiness and empathy can be developed as well. In the same way that practice improves a singer’s voice, an athlete’s performance, or a mathematician’s growth and development, practice can also help a person become happier. Weil (2011) cited studies of the brain organized by Richard Davidson, Director of the Laboratory for Affective Neuroscience at the University of Wisconsin-Madison, that have shown that “There are no peaceful molecules without peaceful thoughts” (p. 65). Davidson performed brain scans on Matthieu Ricard, a Frenchman who attained a doctorate in molecular genetics, then later became a Buddhist monk. Based on data collection Davidson completed, he dubbed Ricard “The World’s Happiest Man.” What he found was that Ricard had increased activity in the left prefrontal cortex, which is associated with a positive emotions. Ricard makes an effort to be happy, practices happiness, and works to eliminate negative emotions through meditation—remember he is now a Buddhist monk! This study demonstrates that happiness can be learned with specific practice and effort.

In 2011, The Hawn Foundation collaborated with Scholastic to develop the MindUP curriculum (see [http://thehawnfoundation.org/mindup](http://thehawnfoundation.org/mindup)), which focuses on the development of mindful attention to oneself and others. One component of this curriculum is developing optimism in our students: “We can train our brain to have an optimistic perspective, thanks to neuroplasticity” (Hawn Foundation, 2011, p. 111). In one study of the MindUp program, students self-reported improved optimism and self-control, with 82% of fourth- and fifth-grade students reporting a more positive outlook, 81% noting that they learned how to make themselves happier, and 56% suggesting they tried to help others more often after going through the program (Schonert-Reichl & Lawlor, 2010; Schonert-Reichl et al., 2011).

The MindUp resources suggest teaching students to use “self-talk” to practice positive thinking and to share with students the benefits of practicing optimism (the Jonsson School blog, a school that actively uses the