- We become smarter when we learn new things!

Demonstrate neural connections using thread (a weak understanding), string (on the way to mastery), and a rope (mastery).

Ask for 3 to 5 volunteers to be neurons. These volunteers can hang a paper neuron around their neck.

Ask the group neurons if someone could share something new that they learned recently (e.g., knitting, golfing, or the Common Core State Standards).

For illustrative purposes, we will choose Sara’s response. Sara shared that she is just learning about the Common Core State Standards (CCSS). Announce that this group of neurons now represents part of Sara’s brain.

Take a thin piece of thread and ask two of the neurons to connect using this thread. This thin connection will represent Sara’s new learning of the CCSS She is just beginning to learn about them, so this is a weak connection.

Ask Sara if there is something that she has learned and that she is getting better at but still might need some practice. In this case Sara may respond with “formative assessment.” At that point, two of the student neurons can connect using a thicker connection, a piece of string. This represents a better understanding of formative assessment, but it is not yet at mastery level.

Then propose the following scenario: Let’s look at Sara’s CCSS connection. It is represented by a thin piece of thread. What will happen to this connection after Sara has more experience learning about and practice with the CCSS? Let’s say that Sara reads about, watches videos, asks questions, persists, and puts forth a lot of effort into incorporating the standards into her classroom and is