strategy. Then, once you learned this new skill, it became a strength for you. In fact, you surpassed many others who have had this skill for years. As an adult, you had the drive, motivation, and persistence to decide that reaching this goal was important to you. No one took away the opportunity to let you learn, no one told you it was “too hard” for you, no one told you that this was “not the right group” for you. No one put up barriers to hinder your learning.

Yet, sometimes our education system does all of the above. Our school structures eliminate opportunities, communicate low expectations, and prematurely remove students from challenging environments. Many reasons exist for hampering student potential in this way; one major obstacle is how we judge both adults and children by the speed in which things are completed.

Our society has become one that values pace. The faster, the better. If we don’t get our medium, decaf, skim, extra hot, caramel latte in less than 2 minutes, then we are annoyed. If our Internet connection is not instant, then we grumble or click fast and furiously. If a driver in front of us is not going at a pace we agree with, then we use the horn or moan out loud. If an educator describes a bright child in their classroom or school, then we might hear him refer to the child as “quick” and those in the bottom reading group as “slow.”

We need to step back, take a breath, and realize that it is not about how fast students master learning. It is about the persistence and effort that they put forth.

## Growing School Communities That Embrace a Growth Mindset

Developing ways to establish a school community that promotes the belief that intelligence is malleable is the major goal of this book. The entire school staff—administrators, teachers, support staff—as well as parents must truly believe that all children can be successful. At the same time, children must also accept this belief system. Recall the vignette that opened this chapter—did the little boy who believed his classmate was the smartest embrace the idea that he too could be successful? Not so much, even with