## anchor activities

ongoing tasks given to students that they can access when they complete classroom work or when their teacher is working with other students and that enrich the learning of the content being studied

Many resources are available online for developing anchor activities; check the Resources section of this book for a recommended site. You may even want to develop some anchors that have to do with the malleability of the brain! It is well worth the time investment, as it will make managing differentiated groups a breeze.

## Acceleration and Enrichment

Which is more important: acceleration or enrichment? OK, trick question—they are equally important. Think about enrichment as going deep and wide into the content and acceleration as going forward. Acceleration can take many forms and is not just about grade skipping. It is about allowing students who have already mastered content as evidenced by a preassessment coupled with observation of students who master content quickly to move on. Every student deserves to learn every day. Preassessment and curriculum compacting allow for topic/content area acceleration. A growth mindset on the part of both the teacher and the student is necessary for acceleration. Too many times I have heard teachers say, “He would not be able to handle acceleration,” “She gets off task easily so I will not accelerate,” or “He is on a behavior contract.” These “excuses” or attempts to rationalize gatekeeping are not part of a responsive classroom. Topic or content area acceleration is not a reward; it is a necessity for those students who have demonstrated mastery and are ready to embrace more challenge.

### acceleration

moving faster through content, allowing students who have already mastered content or who master content quickly to move into above-grade-level content