# CHAPTER 4

## WHY IS CRITICAL THINKING IMPORTANT IN A GROWTH MINDSET CLASS CULTURE?

> “I don’t mind if I mess up an assignment, as long as I figure out what I did wrong.”—Grade 6 student

What is the relationship between critical thinking and growth mindset? Let’s first take a moment and agree on a definition of critical thinking. Daniel Willingham (2008), professor of cognitive psychology at the University of Virginia, gave solid research on the development of critical thinking in our schools. Willingham shared that, from a cognitive scientist’s point of view, three types of thinking fall under the umbrella of critical thinking: reasoning, making judgments/decisions, and problem solving. Every day we reason, problem solve, and make decisions, but they do not always require critical thought. For example, when you woke up this morning one of the first decisions that you had to make was what to wear. Is this a decision that required critical thought? In most cases, no; however, is there ever a time when deciding what to wear does require critical thought? Perhaps if you were planning a day of hiking in a terrain where temperatures can change dramatically or you had an important job interview; in these cases, deciding what to wear could require a small amount of critical thought. Students may be given opportunities to reason, make decisions, or problem solve, but the question we must ask ourselves as educators is if these opportunities require deep, critical thinking.

Another important factor to consider about critical thinking is that it is not a simple skill (Willingham, 2008). According to Willingham (2008), critical thinking is a process that must be infused with content; it is not something that you can just check off a list once it is mastered. Why? Well, one reason is that the content being focused on and the complexity of