challenging curriculum and enriched learning opportunities.  
(Olszewski-Kubilius & Clarenbach, 2012, p. 9)

Think about that last phrase—“access to challenging curriculum and enriched learning opportunities.” Are students in your school or district allowed these opportunities if they do not exhibit already developed abilities? What are some ways that your school or district can allow for access of challenging instructional experiences for all students, especially those with potential or motivation to succeed?

## The Gifted Label

Let’s now think about the practice of labeling a child “gifted.” Doesn’t telling a child that she is “gifted” manifest a fixed mindset? This goes back to the importance of growth mindset praise. Growth mindset praise is about praising what the child does, not who the child is. We never want to say, “You are so smart” but saying, “You are gifted” sends the same message—it says that the child has permanent traits and that those traits are being judged. Carol Dweck explained it this way:

> To the extent that young people believe they simply have a gift that makes them intelligent or talented, they may not put in the work necessary to sustain that talent, moreover, the gifted label that many students still receive, and that their parents relish, may turn some children into students who are overly cautious and challenge-avoidant lest they make mistakes and no longer merit the label. (as quoted in Horowitz, Subotnik, & Matthews, 2009, p. xii)

During a keynote address to Baltimore County, MD, educators in May 2012, Carol Dweck also shared that “Too much emphasis on who is gifted creates kids who think they have to be infallible.” Does the practice of identifying gifted students and grouping them together contribute to a growth mindset culture? What message do these practices send to the students deemed “gifted” as well as the rest of the student population?