to producing an example. Formats should vary within the same assessment: multiple choice, creating examples, fill in the blank, open-ended questions, completing a graphic organizer, and/or mind mapping, to name a few. Avoid true/false and other formats where a 50-50 guess exists; for math concepts, assess the concept in two ways if possible.

4. Use effective questions. “What kind of candy bar is in the sky?” is an example of a question that was found on a preassessment that was developed to measure student understanding of the solar system. (The teacher was going for “Milky Way,” but “Mars” would also work.) The issue with this question is that it does not really give the teacher information. I might know that the Milky Way is in the sky but have no knowledge of what it is. A better way to measure understanding might be the following: “The Milky Way is a galaxy that contains our solar system. Share everything that you know about the Milky Way.”

5. If reading is not being assessed, read the preassessment to the students. Reading the preassessment levels the playing field for those students who are not yet strong readers. They will be able to demonstrate understanding of the content without worrying about misinterpreting directions or not knowing a word or phrase.

Guidelines for developing a preassessment specific to math can be found in Figure 2. Even though these guidelines are directed toward math preassessments, they can be applied to other subject areas as well. Teachers should avoid preassessing and teaching the same topics, skills, procedures, or concepts on the same day. Educators need time to analyze the results and plan for instruction. It is also important to note that preassessments should never count toward a child’s grade and that it is important to frame the purpose of the task with the students. Let students know that the information they share will help determine how to approach instruction for them. It is important that they put forth their best effort but that they realize the grade will not count on their report card. One first-grade teacher reported that some of her students cried when completing a preassessment because she did not frame the task properly; they felt frustrated and worried about their lack of knowledge.