this interest just surfaced during eighth grade, which brings into question the level of preparedness. Although I understand that you do not wish to witness her recent interest in literature wane, I would like to emphasize that our standard freshmen English classes are rigorous enough to challenge our students. She will be challenged in a Standard English class freshman year, where we would be able to fill in any gaps and afford her the opportunity to develop a solid foundation of not only critical reading, but also analytical writing. If she earns an A in standard college prep English freshman year, she will be moved into honors English sophomore year.

Kind regards,
Department Chair–English

First the good news: The department chair wrote a response that addressed most of the points that the parent brought up in the letter. Emma’s parents asked for information about the process for requesting a specific class placement and the response back basically stated that no process existed for parents to make this request. Technically, the school response was a well-thought-out, well-written letter. However, those of you who are well on your way to adopting a growth mindset and read it through a growth mindset lens probably need to take a deep breath. I know I had to when I read this response. This kind of gatekeeping occurs through all grade levels in many schools. Emma is demonstrating enthusiasm, motivation, and willingness to welcome the challenge of an honors level course. The department chair is demonstrating a fixed mindset, a belief that this child does not have the innate ability to handle an honors level course based on a multicontent placement test given one morning of this child’s life. If you analyze the response further, she also points out to the parents that the child fell “far below” their “cut-off.” (Message to parents: “Your child is not smart.”) If your class placement process even entertains the words “cut-off,” then the process is not one that truly contributes to a growth mindset culture. Look at the response again and keep an eye out for other statements that scream, “We don’t believe your child can do this!” The fact that the