# CHAPTER 8

## WHAT ARE SOME WAYS TO HELP STUDENTS ADOPT A GROWTH MINDSET?

> “I felt my brain growing when I was doing that game”—Grade 3 student

More and more studies are surfacing that emphasize the importance of teaching students about their own brains. Increase of motivation, willingness to accept new challenges, and healthier reaction to failure are only a few of the benefits a child will experience when he or she understands how his or her brain works. With tight curriculum mapping and school systems’ emphasis on consistent educational experiences among grade-level and content-area classes, educators are losing the flexibility to “add on” anything more to an already very crowded curriculum and instruction plan. Therefore creativity is needed when looking for ways to embed some conceptual neuroscience and growth mindset knowledge into the instructional day.

Please keep in mind that this is not a one-lesson experience—students need to be constantly reminded that they have the ability to get smarter and that each and every brain has an elastic quality to it. It all depends on how you use it. Therefore, we need to get creative about ways to teach and revisit the concept of malleable intelligence. Begin to think about the subject area and grade level that you teach. Where are the opportunities to introduce some basic brain education? If you teach reading or English, consider choosing a nonfiction text about neuroscience or learning and the brain when exploring comprehension strategies for expository texts. English teachers can also highlight characters who exhibit growth or fixed mindset traits (look at the Analyzing Authors and Characters Sample Learning Task later in this chapter as a guide). Science educators can begin the school year