# CHAPTER 1

## WHAT ARE MINDSETS, AND HOW DO THEY AFFECT THE CLASSROOM?

> “Look at her paper—she’s the smart one!” It was the first month of school in a third-grade classroom, and I was visiting the students to see if they had any prior knowledge about the brain. This particular school had a 70% poverty rate and the majority of students did not have English as their first language. As I circulated around the tables, I was observing a student writing copiously when I heard it: “Look at her paper—she’s the smart one!” This announcement proudly came from one of her classmates. When I assured him that he along with his classmates were all working hard on the assignment, he agreed, but again shared that this particular classmate would have the best paper.

What I discovered in this classroom was a profound example of a fixed mindset at play—an 8-year-old child who believed that his classmate was the “smart one,” and that no matter the amount of hard work he put in, her paper would always be better. In this case, the child didn’t see that he, too, could be the “smart one” or have one of the “best papers” in his classroom, a mindset I have seen during my time as an educator and consultant often. That’s where this book comes in—to help the many teachers, administrators, parents, and students like the one in this story realize that they can change the way they think about success and intelligence in the classroom.

### Can Intelligence Be Changed? What Are Growth Mindsets and Fixed Mindsets?