(the young boy’s grandfather). He had found out recently that this watch would someday be his and he realized that this was a very special watch, thus he showed gratitude for something that would happen in his future.

This past Christmas, my 15-year-old daughter decided to give all of her friends a gratitude jar. She decorated each jar and wrote a message asking her friends to take a small piece of paper (which she supplied) and each day write one thing they were grateful for. Then on New Year’s Eve they would all get together and count their many blessings from the previous year. Teachers can put a similar process in place in their classrooms. Each day every student can respond to a prompt, like “Something good that happened to me today,” “A reason that I have a great life,” or “I am grateful for these things today.” Students would drop the responses into a personal or communal box. What this exercise does is practice optimism. By asking students to look at the good in every day, they are training their brain to be optimistic. Of course, optimism must be modeled and practiced by the teachers and school staff each day.

## Growth Mindset Reminders in the Classroom and School Building

In addition to presenting specific lessons about the malleability of the mind and using online resources, think of ways that the message can be embedded within the content of instruction and the learning atmosphere of the classroom. The following are some visual triggers that can be posted in the classroom or in the school hallways that can be used to reinforce the message:

- Growth Mindset Poster (see Figure 20)
- Pictures of people who exemplify a growth mindset:
  - Elementary classrooms: Walt Disney, Michael Jordan, Oprah Winfrey, Harland David Sanders, Abraham Lincoln, Beethoven, Babe Ruth, J. K Rowling, Frederick Douglass
  - STEM Classrooms: Thomas Edison, Albert Einstein, Robert Goddard, Bill Gates, Ben Carson
  - English/Reading Classrooms: Agatha Christie, Stephen King, J. K Rowling
- Inspirational quotes that contribute to a growth mindset: