pencil preassessment requiring students to identify those devices and then write examples of various types of figurative language. She gave both classes the same preassessment but only previewed the material with one section. The results showed a much higher level of understanding for the students who previewed the material first. In fact, almost half of the previewed class showed complete understanding based upon the preassessment! Only a few students in the class who took the preassessment cold showed understanding of the concept. It is possible that a few of the students learned about similes, metaphors, and personification during that 3-minute video, but for the majority of students, the preview helped to simply “wake up” the prior learning in their minds.

## Developing Preassessments

The effective use of preassessment is essential to ensuring that students and teachers both work from a growth mindset, believing that effort is the most important attribute that determines success. Without the use of preassessment, some students do not develop a good work ethic due to the fact that they are “learning” content that they already understand. Even though formative assessments can be used to help determine differentiation during the course of an instructional sequence, preassessments allow for front-end differentiation. (Many teachers differentiate for high-ability students at the end of a unit.) Front-end differentiation allows teachers to plan for valuable enrichment and can also provide an opportunity for students to accelerate within the content topic at the beginning of a learning sequence. Preassessment respects a student’s time and prior knowledge.

Deciding what kind of preassessment to use depends upon the content being assessed. Preassessments do not always have to be paper-and-pencil tests. For example, in the primary grades you might ask students to demonstrate their knowledge using concrete math manipulatives or by conducting a structured discussion capturing understanding with anecdotal records or from teacher’s notes. If you want to assess their knowledge of measurement, then hand them a ruler and see what they can do. In trying to have students recognize the author’s point of view, a teacher may meet with small groups and, through a guided discussion, note ideas related to understanding the concept. In both of these cases, teachers should keep