| It is squishy<br>It can be hard<br>It is usually a rectangle<br>It can get wet<br>It feels bumpy<br>You can dry it | It is sometimes soft<br>You can rip it<br>You can use it to wipe<br>It needs water<br>You can use it with cleaning spray | Use it to clean the floor<br>It is squishy<br>It has holes in it<br>Use it with soap<br>You need to wet it |

After students determine that a sponge is in the box and they debrief the process they use to get there, pose this question: “How is your brain like a sponge?” Ask students to think about things that are the same when thinking about a sponge and a brain. Actual student responses have included:

- They are both pink.
- They are both squishy.
- They both grow.
- They both absorb.

Now, set up the following scenario for students:

> Let’s take a look at our sponge again. I am putting it in this jar, and I am going to slowly add water to it. Now it is time to use your imagination: Let’s pretend that the sponge is your brain and the water represents all of the new things you learn every day. What do you think will happen to your brain when you add all of the new things that you learn?

Slowly pour water over the sponge. The students will see how the sponge begins to grow and absorb the water. Tell them, “Every time you work hard and learn something new your brain grows and gets stronger. The sponge is bigger and will now work better since it is wet.” Students can then observe what happens to the sponge over several days without water: It begins to dry and shrivel. Relate this to what happens to a brain when it is not being challenged.

## Sample Learning Task #2: Building a Neural Network