thinking critically becomes more sophisticated over time—it is always evolving. The practice component applied to the content knowledge is essential to develop learners who can apply critical thinking when they need to. Hand in hand with practice is persistence and effort, probably the two most important attributes of having a growth mindset!

If you embrace Willingham’s argument that critical thinking is not a bunch of isolated skills, then you too (like me) may become annoyed by the amount of resources on the market that advertise ways to build critical thinking “skills.” Due in part to the way critical thinking is framed in these resources, the concept of accepting critical thinking as a process embedded in content rather than a set of skills can require a major shift in thinking.

## Critical Thinking in School

During a professional development workshop, one teacher disagreed with the idea that critical thinking is not a skill. In the process of her argument, she explained that cooking is a skill that can never be mastered because the complexity grows, just like thinking critically. I knew where she was coming from—she made the assumption that cooking itself was a skill. Not so—it is a process that requires many skills. She was correct in her analogy that cooking can become more complex just like critical thinking, and she provided me with an opportunity to expand her analogy. Cooking is not a skill but a process, a process that requires certain skills: measurement skills, knife skills, following directions, reading skills, etc. Critical thinking is a process that also requires skills. The skills required vary depending on the situation. For example, if a student is required to analyze data, he may need to use classification skills. The skill of classifying can be taught, practiced, and applied to a variety of situations from an early age. We want to start thinking about critical thinking as a process of strategies that can be applied to myriad situations rather than a set of skills.

Often, expectations are low for students who do not show strength in the traditional areas of schooling: reading, writing, and math. When students are viewed through a lens of achievement (or intelligence in some cases), opportunities for critical thinking are fewer for those students who are on the perceived lower end. It usually boils down to what reading or math level