this case, only 10% of students in the first-grade class demonstrated a fixed mindset. For the most part, these first graders replicated the enthusiasm of the kindergarten students with the exception of only a few students who felt that some students were born smarter than others and that we cannot really change how smart we are. Time to move on to second grade. In these classrooms, I discovered that 18% of students demonstrated a fixed mindset. Are you beginning to see a pattern? With every increase in grade, more and more students believed that intelligence was a fixed trait: They agreed with the notion that “Some people are smart, some people are not.” But perhaps the most surprising result was the large jump between second and third grade. Of the third-grade students I surveyed, 42% had a fixed mindset! Table 1 displays these findings.

**Table 1**  
*Changes in Fixed and Growth Mindsets Across Grade Levels*

| Grade | Fixed Mindset | Growth Mindset |
|-------|---------------|----------------|
| K     | n/a           | 100%           |
| 1     | 10%           | 90%            |
| 2     | 18%           | 82%            |
| 3     | 42%           | 58%            |

This data sends a message loud and clear: We need to start working with educators and children as early as possible so they can maintain a belief system that communicates that all students can succeed. Our children walk into the school building on the first day of kindergarten ready to learn, believing in themselves with all of the optimism a 5-year-old can muster. We need to capture and sustain that mindset as they make their way through school. Now, how can we accomplish this?

