paper. At the top of the wide column, write “Attributes of a________ .” At the top of the thinner column place a question mark (see Figure 12).

Figure 12. Chart used with Guess Box activity.

| Attributes of a ________ | ? |
|--------------------------|---|
|                          |   |

Let the students know that their task is to find out what is in the box. They may only ask questions that can be answered with a “yes” or a “no.” Make it clear that the “no” answers are just as important as the “yes” answers because they give us valuable information about the item’s attributes. As students learn about the item’s attributes through their questioning, record all of the positive attributes on the chart paper. There is no limit as to the number of questions that the students can ask. In fact, it is when many of the students know what is in the box that the questioning becomes higher level and the teacher begins to recognize “sparks” in his or her students. Many teachers end the Guess Box strategy as soon as they think a few kids know what is in it, hence, students miss out on an opportunity to really conceptualize what the object represents.

It is very important to debrief and reflect on the Guess Box process after the item is revealed. Ask students the following:
- What question helped you (the most) to figure out what was in the box?
- Who asked that question? Why did you ask it?

Find out why students asked specific questions. Discuss with students which questions were important to them and why. What kind of information was gained by these questions?
- What are the three most valuable attributes? In other words, if we could only choose three of these words or phrases to describe this object, what would they be?