> **Figure 1.** Teacher worksheet for gauging personal beliefs about intelligence among students.  
>  
> Please share your beliefs about intelligence and/or what you were taught about student intelligence as you prepared to become a teacher.  
>  
> My beliefs about intelligence are:  
>  
>  
>  
>  
>  
>  
> Upon completion, put this in an envelope and put your name and today’s date on the front of the envelope.  
>  
> Later in the year, open the envelope and look at the response you wrote today. Reflect on any changes in your response.

These teachers’ classrooms ranged from preschool through high school, with a wide spectrum of experience in education. Responses were varied and revealed many different opinions about intelligence. Teachers with a fixed mindset (who needed to change in their belief systems about intelligence) had responses like the following:
- “Intelligence is something you are born with (or not) and it’s an unchangeable part of you.”
- “It is innate and hereditary.”
- “Intelligence does not change much throughout the lifetime, IQ stays roughly the same from age 8.”
- “Intelligence is a student’s ability to intake information, retain it, and regurgitate it at any given time.”

Collecting and analyzing these responses served as a preassessment for me as a consultant; the goal was to capture their thinking prior to a series of workshops promoting malleable intelligence and then ask them to respond to the same question at the end of the workshop series. (Preassessment also models the first step required in planning for differentiated instruction, which will be addressed more completely later in this book.) I found that roughly one third of these teachers demonstrated a mindset where they believed that intelligence can be developed and two thirds held a belief that intelligence is fixed and stagnant, just like those quoted above. Interestingly,