newfound passion for literature. Standardized testing does not reflect this surge of interest, motivation, and achievement in the area of reading with meaningful interpretation. We are wondering what steps need to be taken in order to have her placed in freshman-level honors literature. She has maintained an A in Reading so far this year.

Emma has adopted a strong growth mindset in the area of literature, and she feels strongly that she can succeed in an honors literature class. We obviously do not want to see this growth and enthusiasm diminish in her. Please let us know what the process is for making this request. Thank you for your time and I look forward to hearing from you.

Sincerely,
Mr. and Mrs. M

The response back to the parents:

Dear Mr. and Mrs. M,

Thank you so much for your recent inquiry as to the feasibility of effecting a class placement change for your daughter, Emma. Placement is determined by the department chairs and in some cases consultation with other school staff. It is based on the candidate’s performance on the placement test. We do take into consideration the candidate’s grades in English and Reading as well (when a candidate is on the cusp of our cut-off criteria), but given the varied levels of preparedness of students coming from many different feeder schools, the scores do offer us the best method of determining the appropriate placement of the incoming students. The cut-off for honors placement is as follows: 75 (verbal skills), 75 (reading). Your daughter’s scores are far below the minimum cut-off. Please also understand that we have a large number of students who score well above this bar. You mentioned that she received an A in Reading, but also that