that are already homogeneously grouped. Let’s go back to the belief that kids can get smarter. If all students in a classroom are instructed at the same level, what opportunities exist to challenge those students who are ready to embrace a more rigorous learning experience? The bottom line is that if we walk into any classroom, in any content area, at any grade level, evidence of flexible grouping should exist. It may not be an everyday occurrence at the secondary level, but it should be an important component of the class structure and used routinely. Teachers often share reasons why flexible grouping does not occur, and the reason that surfaces most often is management. How can we effectively manage multiple groupings in the classroom?

## Management

Clear expectations are the single most important aspect of managing multiple groups in the classroom. What are students supposed to do when they are done with their work? What should they do if they need help and you are working with another group of students? Spending time modeling and communicating expectations for independent work time is time well spent. If, for example, three instructional groups exist in a class, then instructional time should occur with each group during the time block. During a 90-minute reading/language arts block in the elementary classroom, the teacher might spend 25 minutes with each group and allow for time between groups to touch base with students to answer any questions and to make sure everyone is on the right track. At the secondary level, a teacher might use a 45-minute period to meet with two groups for 20 minutes each. So what should students be working on while the teacher is facilitating another group? The other groups should be working on meaningful tasks that will complement the content area they are working on. This might be independent study or could also be a group task.

Carol Ann Tomlinson, who has authored many books on differentiation, suggested incorporating anchor activities into classrooms in her 2001 book, *How to Differentiate Instruction in Mixed-Ability Classrooms*. Anchor activities are ongoing tasks that students work on independently when they complete classroom work or when their teacher is working with other