# CHAPTER 9

## WHAT ARE SOME WAYS SCHOOL STAFF CAN MAINTAIN A GROWTH MINDSET SCHOOL CULTURE?

> “I think my head is going to explode from all the neurons connecting in my head!”—Grade 2 student

The importance of continually reinforcing the growth mindset message every day cannot be emphasized enough. Maintaining perseverance and effort is a challenge for some students and they need to be continually reminded that they can achieve success. Specific plans to maintain a growth mindset school culture should be embedded in yearly school improvement plans to ensure that they are monitored. During each staff meeting, at least 15 minutes should be dedicated to discussion about maintaining your school’s growth mindset culture. Identify areas of strength and areas that could use improvement.

One aspect of a growth mindset school that is often overlooked is the learning environment in the classrooms. A growth mindset classroom must be a safe place where students do not feel judged and are free to take intellectual risks. A trusting, positive relationship between teacher and student is the heart of a secure learning environment. David Sousa and Carol Ann Tomlinson (2011) discussed the importance of empathy in the classroom as follows:

Empathetic teachers ask themselves if they would want someone to say or do to them what they have just said or done to a student, colleague or parent. For instance, teachers sometimes try to motivate underperforming students by urging them to “try harder.” Although the remark may be well intentioned, the