Do you remember when you first played ShapeOmetry and it was hard? You practiced and persevered and made strong connections in your brain. Is it still just as hard for you? Now let’s look at this math the same way. It might feel very challenging at first but with practice and perseverance you are making more connections in your brain and getting smarter!

Referring back to the process the students went through using the reasoning game helped get the conversation going about staying motivated when faced with challenging tasks. In some cases, students asked for “harder stuff” to help their brain grow.

The following is another example of a dialogue with two ESOL grade 2 students playing Rush Hour. The students began by explaining to me how to play the game. Then the conversation continued with one of the students:

Mrs. Ricci: Do you ever feel like giving up?  
Student: No!  
Mrs. Ricci: Why?  
Student: I would give up playing a game like … Hide and Go Seek, but not this game.  
Mrs. Ricci: Why wouldn’t you give up playing this game?  
Student: I am not giving up!  
Mrs. Ricci: Tell me why.  
Student: Well, first I think it is above grade level, and I think I can really do this thing!  
Mrs. Ricci: What makes you think that you can do it?  
Student: Because when I try, I know I am getting smarter by making connections and the new connections will help me do it!  

This dialogue is such a wonderful example of student perseverance. The reference he made to “above grade level” made it clear that in his mind he was tackling a very challenging task. What a great example of a student welcoming challenge! He was determined to have success. His reference to Hide and Go Seek was interesting. Perhaps he does not view Hide and Go Seek as strategic or challenging, therefore he would give up because it would not be giving his brain a workout. In all eight informal interviews that were