school level) or brainstorm authors that they have studied (middle and high school level). Record the names on cards and group students in pairs or triads. Each group will be given a card with the name of a character or an author. (This is a great time to do some very subtle differentiation by giving more complex character or author cards to students who embrace challenge.) Each group will analyze the character or author’s actions/words/written word through a growth or fixed mindset lens. For example, some second-grade characters might include Grace, from *Amazing Grace*, and Alexander, from *Alexander and his Terrible, Horrible, No Good, Very Bad Day*.

An example of an author list for a 10th-grade English course might include Henry Thoreau, Ralph Waldo Emerson, Emily Dickinson, Frederick Douglass, F. Scott Fitzgerald, and Mark Twain. Teachers can write options for authors to study on index cards and hand them out. In pairs or triads, students should discuss what they know about each author and look for additional information as needed. Students will be asked to find evidence in the author’s life or his writings that may suggest a fixed and/or growth mindset mentality. They must be prepared to justify their decision with specific evidence. For example a group of students might share:

We think that Frederick Douglass has a growth mindset for many reasons. A specific example of how he valued effort and persistence can be found on page 58 of *Narrative of the Life of Frederick Douglass* where he explains the process of how he learned to read and write in a very nontraditional manner by copying letters that were marked on timber as well as other innovative ways. He states, “Thus after a long, tedious effort for years, I finally succeeded in learning how to write.” Other examples of a growth mindset in Frederick Douglass’ life include ...

After each group states their argument, cards should be classified into three possible groups: Fixed Mindset, Growth Mindset, and Both Fixed and Growth Mindset. Students can then look at the categories and possibly begin to make some generalizations about authors, time periods, literary philosophies, and movements in relation to a growth or fixed mindset.