alternative *instruction* will these students receive as a result of compacting? Too often students are just given worksheets or an extra “activity” to complete as a way to “differentiate” for them. Instruction at their readiness level is what they need, not a worksheet, independent activity, or more of the same.

## Flexible Grouping

Preassessment and compacting are necessary components when creating flexible small groups in the classroom. Teachers may find that, after preassessment, no students need compacting, that all of the students show enough understanding that they would benefit from taking less time and eliminating material. Also consider that some students have such a deep understanding of a topic that they have no gaps to fill. They don’t need compacting; they simply need to move on. Although the Common Core State Standards go deeper into learning, it is still important to consider adding a thin layer of enrichment for students who demonstrate mastery before they are accelerated to above-level content. This enrichment will make sure that students are not prematurely moving on. A thin layer means just that: a small amount of enrichment. Spending days on end revisiting and enriching mastered material in new ways does not provide appropriate challenge and is not respectful of the student’s prior knowledge.

Maintaining flexible small groups across content areas is an essential component of a differentiated, growth mindset class culture. Traditionally, elementary classrooms incorporate flexible groups in reading only. Perhaps movement among these groups is not as fluid as it should be, but most primary classrooms operate several reading groups. Why does this occur only in reading and often only in primary grades? Students have varied levels in math as well, yet many classrooms deliver whole-group math instruction. Once students begin middle and high school, an assumption is made that they are “grouped” already. Perhaps a school offers honors or remedial sections in reading or math. Often an assumption is made that subgrouping within a classroom should not occur because of the availability of leveled classes. The fact is that a large range exists within these classes and differentiation with flexible grouping should be an important tenet of classes