note is that people with a growth oriented mindset have a remarkably accurate assessment of their own performance and ability. Those with a fixed mindset have a remarkably inaccurate assessment of their own performance and ability. (para. 16–18)

Information about growth and fixed mindsets, encouraging resilience, basic brain operations, and ways to praise their children are essential concepts that can be shared with parents. In doing so, children will hear a consistent message from adults in their lives that will significantly contribute to developing and maintaining an “I can do this” attitude. This can be done by posting information on the school website, social network sites, newsletter blurbs, principal coffee hours, and/or a parent information evening. (Sample newsletter blurbs in English and Spanish can be found in Appendix B.)

## Building Resilience

A central message to communicate with parents is the importance of encouraging resilience in their children. Parents often overlook opportunities for helping children learn to adjust to situations when they are faced with adversity or lack of success. Saying to a child, “No wonder you did not do well on that test, you are always playing video games” or “You shouldn’t have tried out for that team in the first place, you knew it would be a long shot” do not contribute to building resilience. Children will eventually try to avoid anything where they are not very sure that they will be successful rather than view the situation as a challenge to arise to. Some suggestions for building resilience in children include:

- **Use growth mindset praise.** Always praise a child’s willingness to try, effort, patience, and practice. Do not attribute success to “being smart” or “being the best” but to hard work and perseverance.
- **Model flexibility.** There is an old adage, “We plan and God laughs” and as adults, we know how true that is. Children and teens, on the other hand do not innately have the flexibility or adaptability to always handle a change of plans with grace. Being able to switch gears and change plans is important when building resilience in our children.