students to form using images? Choosing a more abstract concept works best. For example, “relationships” works better than “pets.” Some other guidelines for developing concept placemats include:
- Once you choose a concept, brainstorm ideas about what kinds of images might represent that particular concept.
- If you develop the concept placemat with the computer, open a word document, and add images. Insert pictures using clip art or images found online. Three to six images are usually enough to build a concept.)
- In the middle of the concept placemat, place a text box that says, “Find pairs of objects that share a common concept. Find three objects that share a common concept. What concept do all of these images have in common? Be prepared to justify your thinking.”

Specific suggestions for concept placemats to create are included below.

Next, within an instructional sequence, determine how the placemat will be used: As a preassessment or formative assessment? Activator? As a vehicle for learning new information? As a springboard to a discussion? The possibilities are endless.

Ask students to look at the placemat quietly. Give everyone a set time (2–3 minutes) then ask for ideas (otherwise the “quick thinkers” dominate) using questions similar to these:
- Who can find two things that are the same in some way? (Take all student responses. During this time observe/listen for unique connections between the images.)
- Who can find three things that are the same in some way? (Take all student responses. During this time observe/listen for unique connections between the images.)
- Now, let’s look for some things that are the same among all of the images. (Take all student responses. During this time observe/listen for unique connections between the images.)
- Let’s hear some ideas for adding more things that also share the same concept.