and resources for helping parents embrace a growth mindset will be discussed in Chapter 6.)

## Shifting Mindsets

Breaking down the belief that intelligence is static can be a challenge, but with the proper groundwork and education, little by little a mindset can shift. Expecting a shift in mindset immediately is not realistic; after all, some educators have had a fixed mindset belief for most of their lives. Even after someone has had a self-proclaimed mindset shift, she will need to make a conscious effort to maintain that belief.

A fixed mindset has an elasticity that continually wants to spring back. For example, a twice-exceptional child (a gifted student with learning disabilities) called to share a college schedule with his mother who also happened to be an educator. The parent had a mindset “shift” several years ago and had proudly told me all she did to encourage a growth mindset culture within their home. The schedule her son shared involved 8 a.m. classes and a course roster that included macroeconomics, international business, accounting, analysis of media, and management. His mother noted that the fixed mindset mentality buried within her wanted to scream, “Are you crazy? You are setting yourself up for failure!” Instead, she responded, “It sounds like a challenging schedule, and I know that with continued effort, you will be able to manage it.” Believing that all children can, with effort, persistence, and motivation succeed, is the heart of this belief.

## Brain-Based Research

One of the reasons for this shift in thinking about intelligence is due to the available technology that examines the function and make-up of the brain. Recent brain research negates the notion that intelligence is “fixed” from birth. Formal and informal studies demonstrate that the brain can develop with the proper stimulus. Other current research in neuroscience emphasizes the concept of neuroplasticity. Neuroplasticity is the ability of the brain to change, adapt, and “rewire” itself throughout our entire life. Anyone who has ever witnessed someone recovering from a stroke has had a front row seat in watching neuroplasticity. In the case of a stroke, for most