> the personal satisfaction a person feels when something is accomplished

### extrinsic rewards
> outside incentives provided to a person by another individual or source, such as money, certificates, or prizes

Recent research like Daniel Pink’s consistently suggests the value of intrinsic over extrinsic goals for motivation. Another element that has surfaced in literature surrounding motivation is the concept of autonomy, the freedom to decide. As Boykin and Noguera (2011) noted

> Being guided by self-determination, while engaged in an activity, results in optimal motivation levels. It is further postulated that people are more self-determined when they feel a sense of autonomy in their pursuits, rather than when they feel their pursuits are controlled through coercion, external rewards, or guilt/shame avoidance. (p. 84)

With autonomy, there is still accountability, therefore giving students some level of autonomy should be a consideration in some situations.

Kou Murayama, a psychological researcher at the University of California, Los Angeles conducted a study among German students in grades 5–10 (as reported in Blue, 2012). The students were followed for 5 years, given a math exam and IQ test, and surveyed about their attitude toward math annually. As a result of this study, it was found that IQ did not predict new learning. It was the students who were motivated who made the fastest gains. In other words, those students with a growth mindset! Data captured from the survey found that those students agreeing with statements such as, “When doing math, the harder I try, the better I