instructional structures are in place to guarantee a responsive learning environment? That seems to be the predicament that many teachers face. Once again, we find many new teachers graduate with a teaching degree but have never had even one class or accessed professional development in differentiation or responsive teaching. The focus of this chapter delineates the necessary steps to have a responsive, differentiated classroom.

## Preview and Preassess

The initial stage of differentiation involves preassessment or finding out what students know about a particular skill, concept, or topic before planning for instruction. Preassessment is the first step to creating a differentiated classroom.

In the past, preassessment has been used for years in one particular subject area. Any guesses? Spelling! Historically, students have been given a spelling pretest on Monday and a posttest on Friday. What instructional changes occurred due to the range of outcomes indicated from the spelling pretest? Well, in some classrooms, teachers provided students with different spelling words to learn that were perhaps taken from their own writing. In other classrooms, the “reward” for knowing the words on Monday was more words! So these wonderful spellers got to do 30 words instead of 20! (Not a good practice, by the way.) Other times, students just took the pretest and regardless of what level of mastery was demonstrated, the whole class did the same spelling activities for the week and all took the same test on Friday. As this predicament shows, differentiation and a responsive classroom is not just about administering a preassessment, it is about reacting and responding to the results.

**preassessment**  
finding out what students know about a particular skill, concept, or topic before planning for instruction

## Preview the Content