- Ask for three to five students to volunteer to be neurons. With elementary and middle school students, you can have them hold a picture of a neuron or hang a cardstock neuron around their neck.
- Ask the students if someone could share something new that he or she learned recently. Responses might include multiplication, a foreign language, sewing, a sport, and so on. For illustrative purposes, we will choose Sam’s response. Sam shared that he just learned how to divide in math class. Announce that this group of neurons now represents part of Sam’s brain.
- Take a thin piece of thread and ask two of the student neurons to connect using this thread, with each of them holding one end. This thin connection will represent division. Explain to the students that Sam is just beginning to learn how to divide, so this is a weak connection.
- Ask Sam if there is something that he has learned and that he is getting better at but still might need some practice. In this case, let’s say that Sam responds with “multiplication.” At that point, two of the student neurons can connect using a thicker connection such as a piece of yarn. This represents a better understanding of multiplication than division, but it is not yet at mastery level.
- Then propose the following scenario: Let’s look at Sam’s division connection: It is represented by a thin piece of thread, but what will happen to this connection after Sam has more experience learning about and practicing division? Let’s say that Sam persists and puts forth a lot of effort and eventually becomes an expert in division. How will this connection change? At this point demonstrate how this thread of a connection is replaced with a strong, thick rope. (Macramé cording works well here.) See **Figures 15** and **16** for examples of how this lesson was implemented in two classrooms.
- What if, instead, Sam decides that division is just too hard for him and he gives up? What will happen to this connection? (It will stay a weak connection or disconnect entirely.)
- Ask students to think of a time when they felt frustrated learning something new. Ask them to visualize their neurons making stronger connections every time they push through the challenge and master new learning. Tell them to think about these neural connections when