Using the information that you learned from your preassessment, collaboratively plan multiple professional development sessions over several months. Share recent research about developed intelligence as well as the outcomes and educational implications based on the research. Using Dweck’s (2006) terms of “fixed” and “growth” is entirely up to the individual school or system. You can also refer to the concepts as malleable, developed, or flexible intelligence (growth) or static, stationary, or stagnant intelligence (fixed). Some schools chose to adopt a school motto, “We can all get smart at Harmony Park,” or “Our Effort Is the Best at Havencrest.” Understanding conceptually and communicating that intelligence is not a stagnant, innate attribute is the most important aspect of professional development. It is not important what specific researcher, book, or study this idea is built upon. The important thing is to just get the conversation started! One way to get staff thinking about this concept is by asking a few of the following discussion questions:

* Do we, as a society believe in or demonstrate a growth mindset? Why or why not?
* In what areas, personal or professional, do you have a fixed mindset? Why?

Many teachers have cited the following examples as areas in which they have a fixed mindset about their weaknesses or areas that they “will never be good at”: technology, cooking, managing finances, sports. After teachers share some of the areas where they may have a fixed mindset, pose this question: “If you were given appropriate instruction and you had the time, persistence, and motivation, could you become a better cook? Money manager? Third baseman?” Of course they can, they’ll answer. Then ask, “What if you wanted to learn to sing like Andrea Bocelli or Celine Dion? Well, you may or may not reach that goal, but with the proper instruction, much practice and effort, as well as motivation, could you become a better singer?” Yes, they’ll likely answer. Most of us hold a fixed mindset in some aspects of our lives and so we sit on a continuum between “Of course I can do that!” and “I could never do that!” Providing everyday examples like these help teachers apply the concepts of malleable intelligence more easily.