incoming student is referred to as a “candidate” also sends a message. Synonyms for “candidate” include contender, nominee, and contestant; the child simply wants to enroll in an honors class, not run for a political office. Also keep in mind that the decision to keep this child out of the course that she has the motivation to take was made without ever having met her. If the school or staff member was not willing to let the child into an honors-level course based on test scores, perhaps inviting the child in for an informal discussion about a book she has read and to gauge her motivation would have been an appropriate intermediate step that could have occurred. The way this situation played out is a clear example of gatekeeping and a fixed mindset mentality.

Sharing the above communication or one like it with staff can actually be an effective way to initiate a deep discussion with your team or staff about beliefs and school policies. Some educators may see nothing wrong with the above decision. If this is the case, challenge them to view it again through the lens of a fixed or growth mindset. What message does this send to a child? If a student has the motivation, persistence, and willingness to put forth the effort, is she allowed opportunities to be engaged in higher level classes in your school or district? Monitoring how teachers interact with students and communicate growth mindset messages is only part of the process. Evaluating current instructional practices and policies within the school or district is also imperative.

So what happened to Emma when she was kept out of the honors level class? Well, sadly, Emma no longer has a great enthusiasm for literature. There are probably several reasons why this occurred; the first being that she was not with a peer group in her English class who shared her enthusiasm for literature. Interpretive discussions were scant, differentiation did not occur, and she began to believe that well, maybe English was not her thing after all. Another contributor was that solid classroom management did not exist, and instructional time was used to get students in line and ready to learn. Although she was with a first-year teacher who showed great potential, management was not yet a strength. Content that was part of the freshmen English class was “covered,” but the instruction lacked depth. Writing was not explicitly taught based on student strengths or needs, and when the parent asked for clarity about writing instruction, she was told (by