no pattern existed among the age or grade level of the students they taught, however, slightly more of the less-experienced teachers tended to have a growth mindset, while the more experienced teachers held a fixed mindset. (This difference also may have been due to when they completed their teaching degree coupled with neuroscience beliefs at that time. Perhaps the more-experienced teachers finished their degrees during the time when the “bell curve” mentality was more present and widely ascribed to in teacher education; this theory purported that there would always be students who were at the low end who could only go so far.)

A similar process can be conducted in your own school to see how your teachers feel about intelligence. Ideally, teachers should reflect and respond to the statement, “My beliefs about intelligence...” privately, seal their responses in an envelope, and at the end of the professional development series, compare their present mindset to their initial mindset.

After these individual reflections are complete, ask the staff members if they agree or disagree with the following statements that were adapted from Carol Dweck’s (2006) work:
- Our intelligence is one of our fundamental traits.
- We can all learn new things, but we cannot really change how smart we are.

Assess the responses to see who agrees or disagrees with these statements. Educators might agree with both of these statements if they were taught or were raised to believe that intelligence cannot change.

## Step 2: Educate Staff About the Malleability of the Brain

Some educators will resist the belief that all students can master high standards and that “gifted” behaviors can be developed. As I mentioned previously, this can be due in a large part to how the teachers and administrators have been educated. Many college and university teacher prep programs nourish the bell curve mentality of intelligence. Future teachers learn that a typical classroom will contain students at the “top” in the “middle” and at the “bottom.” Does that always have to be the case? Can