that means I need to always try harder and practice to make my brain stronger in math.”

Using direct examples of the types of things people with a fixed mindset tell themselves (like those shown above) is very helpful for students to understand when they may have had a fixed mindset about a task or event in the past. Encourage students to think about examples of growth and fixed mindsets in their own lives and in the lives of the characters in books, movies, and TV shows they enjoy.

Next, share with the students that they want to always strive to have a growth mindset. Tell them:

Sometimes we feel like we can’t learn something new like a new video game or how to work a new cell phone or how to speak another language, but then we can remind ourselves to have a growth mindset and realize that if we stay motivated, practice, and try very hard we can learn to do almost anything! In our classroom, we will be working toward having a growth mindset classroom every day. Sometimes I may point to our growth mindset poster to remind you to persevere. Each one of us will always persevere, never give up, and remind ourselves that we need to embrace challenges.

## Teaching Perseverance Through Literature

A very effective way to teach perseverance is through literature. Identify and discuss books that demonstrates perseverance, persistence, and effort:
- *The Little Engine That Could* by Watty Piper—After a class discussion about the book, pose this question, “What if the Little Engine decided that he couldn’t instead of could, how would the story change?” “What would happen if he said ‘I don’t think I can’ instead of ‘I think I can’?”
- *Wilma Unlimited: How Wilma Rudolph Became the World’s Fastest Woman* by Kathleen Krull—This is the story of runner Wilma Rudolph. Focus first on the word in the title, “Unlimited.” Ask students to predict why the author chose the title. Then, after the