Without formative assessment, the following scenario is bound to happen frequently: A science teacher introduces a new concept to a class of students. He lectures for about 40 minutes using a PowerPoint presentation and explaining the concept. For homework, each student is given a worksheet to complete based on the information he taught that day. Students do the homework and turn it in. After checking their grades online, many find that they received an “F” for their homework.

Now, let’s think about this for a minute. The homework could have served as a formative assessment had the teacher approached it differently. After glancing at the homework at the beginning of class, he could have seen that many of the students did not have an understanding of the concept. At that point, he could have used time to go over the homework, clarify, and reteach if necessary. If anchor activities were in place in the class, then the few students who showed mastery might be given the choice to do them or to participate in the clarification/reteaching session. The other red flag is that the students did not get the papers back to see where the errors were, they simply saw a grade online. The teacher was holding off giving back the papers until an absent student had the chance to turn his in. Homework can be used as a formative assessment (as long as you are sure it is the student’s work) and should never receive a letter grade. Grades for homework should indicate completion, not accuracy, especially when students are still on the pathway to understanding.

When implementing formative assessment, let students know why you assess formatively and that it helps you as a teacher adjust and better meet their needs. Let them know that you always want to improve and grow as a teacher. This models a teacher’s own growth mindset for his or her students. Formative assessment improves teaching and learning, and it allows for growth in all students.

## Summative Assessment

You have previewed, preassessed, compacted the curriculum for some learners, formed instructional groups, and provided opportunities for enriched learning and accelerated content. Whew! Well done. Now it is time to think about how you will assess understanding or mastery of the content.