Former science teacher and university professor, Debbie Silver, author of 2012’s *Fall Down 7 Times Get Up 8* shares an experience that she had when her own son was identified as gifted. She felt proud when he was selected into a new gifted and talented program when he was in fourth grade. However, she observed that his participation in the program promoted a sense of entitlement that made him feel like he was smarter than everyone else:

> Occasionally, I overheard some of the kids in his gifted class make disparaging remarks about their peers who were “not so bright.” I think designers of G/T programs need to be heedful of mindsets and be cautious about encouraging growth rather than fixed mindsets in learners. (p. 89)

Silver (2012) went on to say that she felt that her son was not really able to enjoy the process of learning like most students due to feeling that he always had to “live up to the expectations about him always being the best—at everything. He mostly liked games that he could repeatedly win, and he quickly lost interest in areas where he was not immediately superior” (p. 89).

The October 2012 edition of *Gifted Child Quarterly* contained the article, *A Proposed Direction Forward for Gifted Education Based on Psychological Science*. The authors (Subotnik, Olszewski-Kubilius, & Worrell, 2012) provided much food for thought regarding present practices in gifted education; perhaps one of the more notable points mirrors a growth mindset belief: “What determines whether individuals are gifted or not is not what they are but what they do” (p. 180). An homage to effort. The authors interpretation of giftedness continued, noting that, “There is growing literature on the importance of talent development, one can argue that giftedness in children is probably best described as potential” (Subotnik et al., p. 180). The authors then described a continuum of development that begins with potential, grows to achievement (which is where many measure the “giftedness”), and may or may not result in completely developed talents or, as the authors call it, “eminence.” At each stage of development, instruction must be responsive to student needs. At the third stage, eminence, the learner must have opportunities to develop in his or her areas of strengths and areas of domain-specific abilities in unique ways. The