- Let’s think about why I might have chosen this concept for our class. What do you think we will be talking about? What do you think we are going to learn about? (This question should ask about the content connection of the strategy).

Concept placemats you may consider developing include the following:
- Concept Placemat #1: Things That Have Potential. Images can include: flowers being watered, a solar panel, blueprints for a building, a child with blocks, a young child flexing his muscles, and for older students, a pineapple. The pineapple demonstrates potential because it is often harvested before it is fully grown so that the size is consistent when it is cored, sliced, and fitted into its can. An additional discussion can occur about the potential the pineapple may have if it were allowed to continue growing. Would it be sweeter? Juicier? How large would it grow? Relate the concept placemat and discussion back to the students’ own potential. (See Figure 22.)
- Concept Placemat #2: Neural Networks: Study Habits That Help the Brain Learn. Images can include: Two students working together (collaborative learning), a mnemonic device such as HOMES for the Great Lakes, a picture of various types of flashcards, a mathematical formula being repeated (repetition), and a child thinking about new learning and applying it to other things. After the discussion of the concept, students can use this to reflect on their own study habits and make plans for improving these habits. (See Figure 23.)
- Concept Placemat #3: Attention and Concentration: Things That Help the Brain Focus. Images can include: A plate with foods that represent a good breakfast, an image that represents no TV or electronics, a child sleeping, children playing a sport outside, a student using all of his or her senses: hearing, seeing, smelling, tasting, and touching. Discussion can focus on why these things can help the brain work to the best of its ability. Students can make a plan for improving their own brain function. (See Figure 24.)

Figure 22. Potential concept placemat.