| Content Area | Unit, Book, Resource, Topic | Growth or Fixed Mindset Example | Comments, Additional Information |
|--------------|-------------------------------|----------------------------------|----------------------------------|
| Reading | *Wilma Unlimited: How Wilma Rudolph Became the World’s Fastest Woman*<br>By Kathleen Krall | Find evidence in Wilma’s life that demonstrates perseverance, motivation and effort. | Grades K–3 Biography |
| History | Susan B. Anthony was a women’s rights activist who spent her entire life working for a constitutional amendment giving women the right to vote. | Susan B. Anthony overcame obstacles and persisted in the face of setbacks. | High School American History |

Each school should brainstorm “Look Fors” that would demonstrate a growth mindset school and class culture including evidence of a differentiated, responsive classroom. These are practices that should be evident in a classroom’s physical and affective environment as well as observed through teacher-student interaction. “Look Fors” for a differentiated, responsive, growth mindset classroom might look like the list in Figure 26.

**Figure 26.** Sample list of “Look Fors.”

### Look Fors in a Differentiated, Responsive Classroom

**Ongoing Assessment**  
- Preassessment with previewing and analysis is consistently used.  
- Alternative challenging opportunities and instruction are provided when proficiency is demonstrated.  
- Teachers use formative assessments regularly to find students who are ready for more challenge.  
- Opportunities for students to self-assess are used routinely.  

**Flexible/Fluid Grouping Practices**  
- Flexible subgrouping is an integral part of programming.  
- Anchor activities and/or meaningful centers are used to facilitate management of groups.  

**Curriculum Compacting**  
- Teachers enable some students to eliminate and/or take less time to cover material.  

**Expectations**  
- Teacher expectations are high for all students.  
- Students and teachers believe in the ability to develop intelligence.