effort she puts forth. Well … not so much—his response was … wait for it …“Oh.” Yes, just “Oh.”

I then tried to engage him in a discussion about growth mindset. It was a one-sided discussion. I decided then that I would take matters in my own hands and really bump up my efforts in reminding my daughter about malleable intelligence. I had talked to her many, many times about growth mindset, but now it was all about science. I realized a few things during this time—the most important being that students really needed to hear and feel the same message at school. Hearing it from a parent is just not enough. Students need teachers to believe in them as much as their parents do. Another lesson I learned is that if you talk to a 12–year-old about the same thing ad nauseam, then you will get “the hand” … as in the “Stop, I have heard this from you a thousand times before and it is not helping” hand gesture. In hindsight, I should have arranged another meeting with her teacher (with research on mindsets in hand) to make one last attempt to share the research about malleable intelligence and hopefully adjust his messaging to “effort” praise when responding to students’ performance in science.

In situations where teachers are just not “buying” the whole growth mindset/malleable intelligence theory, all we can ask is for them to, at the very least, send messages that value effort. A principal once shared that he had a member of his staff who did not believe in the growth and fixed mindset research. She believed that she only ever had a few highly able students in her classroom each year. She remarked that most years the majority of her class was “average” and “below average.” The principal asked her to continue to talk to her colleagues, gave her some additional resources on neuroplasticity and growth mindset, and offered to continue the discussion with her. But in the meantime, he asked her to do two things. First, he asked that she only use growth mindset praise in her classroom, to praise what a student does, not who a student is—in other words, to focus on effort-based praise. Second, he asked this teacher to give all students opportunities to participate in higher level learning experiences, even if she did not think the students were “ready” for it. Even though the teacher did not embrace growth mindset, she was asked to put some things in place that might positively affect her students. This is by no means the ideal, simply a bandage until the teacher embraces the concept. Because I have a growth