One of the best things that we can do is to communicate that change is part of living life. Parents can model this for their children by taking a flexible mentality when things do not go their way. For example, if a parent plans a trip to a museum, only to find it’s actually closed on Mondays, then he or she could immediately model flexibility by selecting an alternate activity (or offering the kids some alternate activities to choose from). Taking this attitude in everyday life is important as well for parents, especially by not letting frustrating situations get the best of them.

- **Adopt a “glass half full” mentality in the home.** I remember that when my son was once facing a series of setbacks, he morphed into an almost constant “woe is me” mentality. I finally went to the cupboard, took out a glass, filled it halfway, then asked him, “Is this glass half full or half empty?” Given the situation he was in, he responded, “half empty.” I asked. “Can you still drink from it? Does it still quench your thirst?” He responded that yes, it still could do both of those things. It was then that I made the analogy to the setbacks he was experiencing. Even during a hardship, we need to find positivity. A child with “hope” believes there can be a positive side to most situations. Parents also need to model a positive attitude, both verbally and nonverbally, when faced with their own setbacks. As far as my son goes, words are no longer necessary—all I have to do is get the glass out of the cupboard, fill it halfway, and set it on the table … he gets the message now.
- **Help children find their own niche.** A successful child is a confident child. Sometimes it means trying lots of different things before a child finds an area where she can thrive. This does not mean signing kids up for every lesson, sport, and club that comes along. It means providing opportunities for kids to experience a variety of things: cooking, scrapbooking, chess, stamp collecting, photography … you get the picture.

## Teaching Parents About the Brain and Growth Mindsets