After this class discussion, continue to revisit the reflective aspect of reacting to failure throughout the year. This theme can be incorporated in writing assignments, debates, or analysis of characters, historical figures, and scientists who have failed. This learning experience can really make an impact with some students, who gain encouragement from seeing how effort and hard work can eventually pay off. In addition to discussion about the famous failures listed below, ask students to assume the point of view of the person involved in the failure. Some students may be willing to role play. For example, give the students a scenario that is similar to the following: “You are a scientist whose job is to invent the strongest adhesive possible, but instead, you discover that you have developed a reusable adhesive. How would you react?”

Some examples of famous failures include:

* R. H. Macy: The founder of Macy’s department store failed at seven previous business attempts.
* Colonel Sanders: Harland Davis Sanders’ famous chicken was rejected 1,009 times before a restaurant accepted it.
* Thomas Edison: He conducted experiments on his concepts 9,000 times before he created the lightbulb.
* Post-it® Notes: A scientist at 3M Company was working to create a super-strong adhesive; it was a failure. Instead, he accidentally made a reusable, pressure sensitive adhesive that later was utilized in sticky notes.
* Chocolate Chip Cookies: Ruth Wakefield, owner of the Toll House Inn, was trying to make her chocolate cookie recipe and discovered that she was out of baker’s chocolate. She decided to take sweet chocolate and break it into little pieces, adding them to the cookie dough and thinking that they would melt while they were baked. Instead, the little pieces stayed together. She did not have her chocolate cookies in the end, but discovered the chocolate chip cookie through this failure!

## Analyzing Authors and Characters Sample Learning Task

With your students, brainstorm a list of characters that they have gotten to know through their reading during the year (elementary and middle