- Every word and action sends a message. It tells children how to think about themselves. It can be a fixed mindset message that says, “You have permanent traits and I’m judging them.” For example: “You are so smart.”  

Ask participants to come up with other examples that demonstrate a fixed mindset. Record responses on chart paper divided into two columns: Fixed Messages and Growth Messages. Tell participants:  
  - It can be a growth mindset message that says: “You are a developing person and I am interested in your development,” “You put a lot of effort into that and it shows!”  

Ask participants to come up with other examples that demonstrate growth mindset praise. Record responses on the chart paper.  

45–60  
**Learning and the Brain**  
Discuss the brain with participants:  
  - Research over the past few decades has expanded our understanding of the brain’s capacity to develop new ability. The brain has great capacity to develop through exercise at the right depth and challenge level. This is the condensed version of how the brain works:  
    - The brain is made up of a network of neurons.  
    - When we learn something new, neurons make connections to each other.  
    - When we practice, put forth effort, and persist, these neural connections become stronger and the brain becomes denser.  
    - The rate of density depends on how much the brain is stimulated and actively used.  

- PowerPoint  
- Thread  
- String  
- Rope  
- Five neurons cut from cardstock (or plushy neurons), put on a necklace string for participants to hang around their neck