heavy sigh, or a roll of the eyes does not send a growth mindset message, no matter what words are coming from a person.

It is important to note that some gifted and highly able students believe that putting forth a lot of effort is a sign of weakness. If they have constantly been told that they are gifted and/or smart, they think that learning should be easy for them; therefore, they think that if you have to work hard, you must not be smart. David Sousa (2009), author of *How the Gifted Brain Learns*, finds that “children who are praised for their intelligence learn to value performance, while children praised for their effort and hard work value opportunities to learn” (p. 34).

Schools should provide professional development sessions for all adults in the building that focus on ways to praise students who value and promote growth. It is also important to put in place a support system that can provide feedback to staff. Peer coaching or school leadership can provide constructive feedback to all staff.

## Step 4: Educate Teachers About the Brain

It is rare that I run into an educator who has had coursework or has independently read about the brain and its implications for learning. This goes back to that first question we asked educators to reflect on, “What is intelligence?” Many educators think they know enough about the brain, they may think that some children’s brains are “quicker” and others “slower.” The truth is that neuroscience is a field that is constantly changing and keeping up with all of the studies and research requires a commitment to do so. Even though the field of neuroscience is complex, basic conceptual understanding of the brain is simple and important for teachers as well as students.

In a nutshell: Neurons make new connections when you learn something new. These connections become stronger with practice and effort. The more connections, the denser your brain is. The more density, the “smarter” you are. (So, if you have ever been accused of being dense, that is a good thing!) Educators should have a clear understanding that these neural connections or pathways become stronger every time they are used. Picture brand new learning experiences as neurons being connected by a thin piece of thread. Every time that new learning is practiced and applied, that thin