all students reach mastery? Can all students exceed grade-level expectations? Not everyone can be an Albert Einstein, Steve Jobs, Oprah Winfrey, or Hillary Clinton, but these people did not become who they were without much effort and perseverance.

Using the data you collected from Step 1, begin to plan ways to educate staff about theories of malleable intelligence. It is important to be aware that this will be a very new way of thinking for some educators, so be sensitive in the delivery of the message. Remember, many people believe that intelligence is an innate, permanent attribute that we are born with.

One analogy that can be made when communicating this change of thinking is to ask teachers to think about how a toothache is treated. Fifty years ago, when someone had a toothache, how was it treated? Most likely, the tooth was pulled. Today, because of advanced learning in the field of dentistry as well as new technological possibilities, more options are available. It is important to use examples such as this to give educators an “out” when learning about the possibilities of cultivating intelligence.

In Guy Kawasaki’s 2011 book, Enchantment: The Art of Changing Hearts, Minds, and Actions, he described two kinds of people in the world:

> Eaters and bakers. Eaters want a bigger slice of an existing pie; bakers want to make a bigger pie. Eaters think that if they win, you lose, and if you win, they lose. Bakers think that everyone can live with a bigger pie. (p. 33)

Just like the bakers, all students can win without the existence of “losers” in the class. The “bigger pie” in this case is a growth mindset culture in the classroom.

It has been my experience that some teachers feel guilty after learning that intelligence can be developed. In the past, these teachers may have grouped and instructed students according to perceived intelligence or lowered expectations for some children for the same reason. Let educators know that it is because of new studies and scientific brain research that we now think differently about children and their potential, so they should not feel guilty about past practices. Instead, they can and should look forward—a growth mindset can be cultivated and shifted from a fixed belief.