book is read, discuss the title once more focusing on Wilma Rudolph’s perseverance.
- *Amazing Grace* by Mary Hoffman—Grace wants to play Peter Pan in the school play but is facing resistance; discuss what Grace does to persevere.
- *Gifted Hands: The Ben Carson Story* (Kids edition) by Gregg Lewis and Deborah Shaw Lewis—The real-life story of a boy who went from “class dummy” to brilliant pediatric neurosurgeon. Discuss how Ben Carson persevered to achieve his goals.

## Games That Build Perseverance

Through the Critical Thinking Growth Mindset project discussed in Chapter 4, it was discovered that when students engage in reasoning games that grow more complex as they play, they build perseverance for learning tasks. Games made by Thinkfun that progressively grow more challenging, thus building perseverance, include ShapeOmetry, Chocolate Fix, Brick by Brick, Shape by Shape, Rush Hour, Swish and Swish Jr., and Block by Block. It is amazing to witness students who typically give up, persevere and try to get to the next level of challenge. These can be easily justified for classroom use for several reasons. The first is that perseverance is one of the Common Core State Standards for Mathematical Practice: “Make sense of problems and persevere in solving them.” Another justification is that these games also build reasoning processes. They can be used as centers or anchor activities and always be available before and after school, as well as during indoor recess time for elementary students.

## Facing Failure

One of the areas where students struggle is with the idea of failure. This can be particularly hard for gifted students, perfectionists, and those students who live with strong parental pressure to succeed. Whenever possible, take opportunities to discuss the value of failure.

Asking students to analyze a scenario, quote, or movie clip can be an effective way to engage students in a discussion about the value of failure. For older students, analysis and interpretation of a quote such as Maya