with a mini-unit or weave a thread of neuroscience through an entire year of biology.

## Learning Sequence

On the following pages, ideas can be found for building a conceptual understanding of the brain, as well as fixed and growth mindset tasks for students. Following a responsive instruction model, each section will list several ideas for teachers to use with their students. Some can be used across many grade levels due to the open-endedness of the strategy or task. Others are learning tasks that are specific to grade levels. Use this as a menu and pick and choose learning opportunities that will be the most beneficial to your students.

## Preview and Preassessment (Activate Background Knowledge)

As mentioned in Chapter 3, in order to plan for effective, differentiated instruction, we must first activate background knowledge and find out what students already know about the brain and how it functions.

### Elementary Preview

The preassessment preview for elementary students might be as simple as a series of questions that initiate a discussion like the following:

- Teacher points to his or her head and says:
  - “Who knows what is in here?”
  - “What do we use our brain for?”

### Middle and High School Preview

Secondary students can actively take part in a discussion about the brain to help their teachers gauge their knowledge. Show students a picture of the brain and have a 2–3 minute discussion about the brain, allowing them to contribute information as the conversation flows.