permission, I used my phone to record these conversations. Here is an example of one of those conversations with two ESOL boys as they played Thinkfun’s ShapeOmetry:

Mrs. Ricci: So what’s going on in your brain when you are playing this game?  
Students: We are making connections.  
Mrs. Ricci: What kinds of connections?  
Students: Connections like those … what are the names of those? numerals?  
Mrs. Ricci: Neurons?  
Students: Yes, those neurons are sticking together in my head.  
Mrs. Ricci: Do you ever feel like giving up?  
Students: No, never.  
Mrs. Ricci: Why?  
Students: It is easy  
Mrs. Ricci: Was it always easy?  
Students: No, not always easy,  
Mrs. Ricci: Why is it easier now?  
Students: We just, well we did it for about 5 days and it got easier because we practiced.  
Mrs. Ricci: Oh, so you practiced? So the more you practiced then what happened?  
Students: We made more connections in our brains and it gets easier!  

You can see from that short conversation that these students are visualizing neural connections as they learn. Even though the child said “numerals” instead of “neurons” and said they were “sticking together in my head” rather than “making connections in my brain,” he still had a solid conceptual understanding of what was happening and that understanding increased his perseverance and motivation to get through the tougher levels of the game. This can then be transferred to situations where a child might be struggling. For example, a teacher might say: