- In what areas do they think you have a fixed mindset?
- A growth mindset?

Facilitator should share a personal experience that demonstrates a fixed mindset; for example:
  - I have a very fixed mindset when it comes to technology … in fact, my family gave me an electronic tablet as a gift several years ago, and I wasn’t sure that I wanted to keep it. I felt that learning how to operate it would be impossible for me because I do not have a talent for technology.
  Since getting into this research, I have realized that with effort, I can learn to do anything—I just have to be willing to put in that effort.

At your table, choose one of the following questions to discuss:
  - Do we, as a society believe in a growth mindset? Why or why not?
  - Is this what we were taught? Or how we were taught?
  - For some of us, this is a challenging concept to believe in. Why?

5  
**Why Now?**  
Discuss the following ideas with participants:  
  - We continually learn new things about the brain and how people learn and react to situations and relationships.  
  - Fifty years ago if you had a toothache, how would the dentist “fix” it?  
  - How will this new learning have a positive impact on our students?  

30  
**How Do We Praise Our Students?**  
Ask participants to think of some ways that parent and teacher praise can influence the formation of these mindsets. At tables discuss some specific examples of praise that may manifest a fixed mindset. Tell participants:  

- Chart paper with two columns: Fixed Praise and Growth Praise