themselves as smart, it becomes a self-fulfilling prophecy. Because they don’t really believe that they can be successful, they will often give up and not put forth effort. For those students who are advanced learners, they can become consumed with “looking smart” at all costs. They may have coasted through school without really putting forth much effort, yet they are often praised for their good grades and strong skills. Often, an advanced learner with a fixed mindset will start avoiding situations where she may fail; she can become “risk adverse.” In her book, Dweck (2006), using tennis star John McEnroe as an example, noted that a person with a fixed mindset often is a high achiever who blames outside forces when he or she “fails” at a task.

### fixed mindset
a belief system that suggests that a person has a predetermined amount of intelligence, skills, or talents

Think for a minute about your own mindset. A mindset is a set of personal beliefs and is a way of thinking that influences your behavior and attitude toward yourself and others. An educator’s mindset directly influences how a child feels about him or herself and how he or she views him- or herself as a learner. A child’s mindset directly affects how he or she faces academic challenges. A child with a growth mindset perseveres even in the face of barriers. A child with a fixed mindset may give up easily and not engage in the learning process.

A fixed or growth mindset can directly affect family dynamics as well. It is not surprising to note that parents also have a big impact on how children view themselves. They will often view their children through specific lenses: “Joseph was born knowing his math facts,” “Domenic has always asked good questions,” and “Catherine just knows how to interpret a piece of literature.” These are all examples of a fixed mindset, even though the statements sound positive. These statements describe who these children “are,” not the effort that they have put forth. As educators, think of some occasions when you have heard a parent describe her child in a way that rationalizes perceived weaknesses: “She is just like me; math was not my thing either” or “I can understand why he does not do well in reading; I never liked to read.” (Ideas