- [ ] Analyze preassessments: determine areas already mastered, any gaps that may exist, and areas of need for each student.
- [ ] Identify students who would benefit from curriculum compacting and plan instruction for the areas of need.
- [ ] Identify any students who have complete understanding and are ready for another learning outcome. Plan for enrichment and topic/content acceleration for these students.
- [ ] Form instructional groups—model anchor activity expectations if necessary and share the group rotation for the day. Teacher will instruct each group every day. Plan for a few minutes between groups to respond to any questions from students, make sure everyone is on the right track, and praise effort students are putting forth.
- [ ] Administer formative assessment daily. Use the information to inform instruction for students as well reflection for the teacher. If understanding is not evident with most students, reteach in a new way. Student movement among groups may occur based on the formative assessments.
- [ ] Summative assessments, performance tasks, and products (as well as homework) must be differentiated based on the instruction for each group.

The template in Figure 4 is a way to reflect on, think about, and set up the instruction; it does not include specific instructional strategies. However, care should be taken to differentiate process or strategies among the groups. Differentiation of process is about how the learning is presented and how a student interacts with the material. Also note that the differentiation model described is focused on readiness, not student interest; student interest should be considered when planning any instructional sequence. Many teachers find this template helpful for planning for differentiation. Once educators internalize the process, this planning shell may not be needed. Several teachers use the template to record the names of the students in each group on the back of each column or replicate the template electronically and record student data; this can serve as way to keep track of where students begin and how far they go in a specific unit, topic, or concept.

Eric Jensen, author of 2005’s *Teaching With the Brain in Mind*, pointed out that “Research on brain maturation clearly indicates that the commonly mandated policy of ‘everyone on the same page on the same day’ makes little sense” (p. 151), a statement that lends support to both differentiation and grouping in growth mindset cultures. Keeping the possibility of three instructional groups (at the elementary level; you can use two instructional groups at the secondary level) in mind, as illustrated on this template, complements the building of a growth mindset culture. With practice, effort, motivation, and, yes, a growth mindset, differentiated, responsive