teacher is assuming that the students are unwilling to expend the time and energy necessary to succeed. Consequently, students frequently construe this comment to be accusatory and judgmental. When students feel accused, they are less likely to be cooperative. (p. 20)

The learning environment should also be a fear-free zone. Fear is such an intense emotion that it can shut down cognitive processes and force the brain to only focus on the source of the fear and what to do about it. The fear of making an error or experiencing failure is a big obstacle to learning. As mentioned earlier, some students will avoid experiences that may be too challenging due to fear of failure. A growth mindset teacher should discuss these fears with students and reassure them that they will not be judged if they make mistakes or fail. Teachers can also share their own stories of times that they were afraid to take a risk due to fear. Our environment helps to shape us and a classroom learning environment does as well. “Just as adults are affected by their environments, students are encouraged or discouraged, energized or deflated, invited or alienated by classroom environments” (Sousa & Tomlinson, 2011, p. 31) Also important to note is that it can pose a challenge for students to feel supported in a learning environment where work is either too hard or too easy for them, thus, a differentiated, responsive classroom contributes to an intellectually safe learning environment.

Within the context of instruction, the growth mindset message can also be reinforced. For example, the staff at Maryvale Elementary school in Rockville, MD, are very committed to building a growth mindset school culture. In 2012, the school’s principal, Karen Gregory, presented each staff member with a growth mindset T-shirt (see photo below) during preservice week and over a 2-year period, the staff has participated in ongoing professional development about ways to build and maintain this school culture.