conducted with these groups of students, not one student said that he or she ever felt like giving up. As one of the ESOL students put it, “The more you try, the more you get smarter.” Many teachers reported that they felt the games coupled with the growth mindset discussions increased perseverance. I suspect that if the games were just placed in the classrooms without the benefits of the growth mindset lessons and discussions, these conversations would have played out differently. My hunch is that many of these students would have given up in an early level of the game.

## Results of the Critical Thinking Growth Mindset Project

The Critical Thinking Growth Mindset Project showed unexpected results in just 7 months. Not only did the teachers report increased motivation and persistence, but the data showed growth in reasoning for the students in these schools. Part of the school district’s process for gifted and talented screening was the use of a cognitive abilities test. Scores from Title I schools were consistently well below the target score. In order to be considered for accelerated and/or enriched instruction, as well as identified as “gifted,” this system used multiple criteria. One criterion was a target score of the 80th percentile on analogical and quantitative reasoning subtests. In the spring of their second-grade year, students across the district participated in a process for gifted services and identification. The mean scores for the six schools is shown in Table 2.

**Table 2**  
*Mean Scores for Students Before the Critical Thinking Growth Mindset Project*

|  | Analogical Reasoning Percentile Mean Score | Quantitative Reasoning Percentile Mean Score | Target Percentile |
|---|---|---|---|
| 2011 | 51 | 43 | 80 |
| 2010 | 50 | 43 | 80 |