MindUp curriculum, offers many examples of how MindUp can be used directly with students at [http://brainchildblog.com/category/mindup](http://brainchildblog.com/category/mindup). Being an optimistic learner is beneficial for students, as it helps them become ready to master new learning and be optimistic about their ability to do so. Remember Chapter 1’s discussion of neuroplasticity? It is because of the brain’s neuroplasticity that we have the ability to become happier, a concept that many teachers will grasp and be able to reapply to the idea of flexible intelligence.

## Step 3: Educate Staff About Praise for Students

How do we praise our students? Walking through almost any school, you can hear teachers praise student success, behaviors, and attitudes. Educators must be more aware of the way we praise students if we are journeying down the path of a growth mindset school culture. Carol Dweck and her colleagues have presented sound evidence about the value of praising effort rather than outcome. Dweck (2006) has discovered through her research that students who believe that intelligence is something you are born with and cannot change are overly concerned about looking smart. This is particularly true with gifted and highly able students.

Therefore, praise such as “You are so smart” could be detrimental for students who hold a fixed belief about intelligence. Saying “You are so smart” is the equivalent of saying “You are so tall”—what did a child have to do with being tall? It is just a genetic trait that the child had no control over. Both praise statements recognize no action that the child has put forth. No effort is recognized. When adults praise what a child “is,” such as tall or smart, the children attribute their accomplishment to a fixed trait they were born with. When adults praise actions or tasks that children “do,” the children attribute accomplishment to their own effort. Often it is just a matter of adding on to the praise that is already stated. For example, if a teacher says, “You did a great job on that paper,” she might add, “I can tell you worked very hard.” Modifying or adding effort praise is all it takes to send a growth mindset message. Adults must also be aware of the nonverbal messages that they are sending to students. Folded arms, a stern face, a