professor of educational psychology at the University of Iowa and cocreator of the Cognitive Abilities Test (CogAT), stated that abilities are developed through experiences “in school and outside of school” (para. 3). When parents and educators review these “intelligence” scores, assumptions may be made about the child and beliefs may kick in that place limits on the child’s potential.

## The Role of Potential and Hard Work

Potential. What a great word. It is all about possibilities. However, “potential” is often used in ways that can make me uncomfortable. Think of the phrase, “He is not working to his full potential” or “We will help your child reach his full potential.” How does potential become “full”? Is it something that can be checked off on a report card? Potential can never be “full”; it is never-ending and our possibilities are infinite. As a person grows, learning and experiences become more sophisticated and challenging, growth continually occurs, and potential is never reached because it is impossible to reach. Perhaps many thought Michael Phelps reached his “full” potential after his 10th Olympic medal in 2008—a feat he went on to shatter at the 2012 Olympics when he won eight more medals. Believing that intelligence, talent, skills, and, yes, even athletic ability can be developed encourages these endless possibilities.

We are all born with potential. However, we might have innate strength or capacity in one or more specific areas. These strengths can manifest themselves in many ways. Strengths can be shown physically, creatively, socially, academically, perceptually—the possibilities are endless. Every child has strengths, and some children are born with a greater degree of specific strengths compared to their peer group. For those children with outstanding specific strengths or those who are identified as “gifted,” their strengths deserve to be further developed. However, it is also important to consider that other children have the potential to work side-by-side or even surpass those with intrinsic abilities.

Think of a time that it took you a little longer to learn a new skill. It may have been something that required physical coordination, playing a musical instrument, using a new piece of technology, or learning a new instructional