Figure 2. Guidelines for developing a preassessment specific to math.

Guidelines for Developing Preassessments for Math

1. The preassessment must measure understanding only in the topic/unit that is specifically being assessed and include both computation/procedural skills and a measurement of conceptual understanding.

2. Make it clear in the teacher resources that teachers should read the preassessment directions out loud so all students understand what is being asked. (A struggling reader should not be penalized in math because he or she cannot read the directions.)

3. Include a few sentences for teachers to read to students prior to the preassessment. This should help frame the reason for the preassessment (i.e., “Today I want to see what you know about fractions. This task will not count as a grade but it is very important for you to do your best. This will help me plan instruction that is just right for you.”).

4. Go deep. A math preassessment is not just about computation. A preassessment should include application of the mathematical skill or concept.

5. When possible, a math preassessment should ask students to reason quantitatively with the concept.

6. When developing a preassessment, use different formats, allowing students to demonstrate understanding from solving a problem to developing a problem. Avoid true/false, multiple choice, and other formats where a students can guess an answer.

7. Assess each math skill or concept in at least two ways.

8. Include above-grade-level indicators within the same topic.

When beginning to evaluate student preassessments, another important consideration is how you analyze the outcome. It is not an all-or-nothing approach and assigning a random percentage is not responsive to specific student needs. Therefore, saying that all students who get an 85% or greater are ready to move on is not appropriate or responsive to students. That randomly assigned number of 85 tells us nothing about where the specific student’s strengths and needs lie. The purpose is to find students who have partial or complete understanding, then figure out where the gaps are and how to plan instructionally for those students. When students show partial understanding, note the areas that need to be addressed. It is helpful to develop a matrix that lists all of the objectives that were assessed and all of the students’ names. Teachers can then color code, use a check system, or assign points to each of the objectives. These will help form flexible groups and the instructional planning that takes place will consider the needs of the students before instruction even begins. Even better, if preassessments are developed centrally in a school system, an electronic tool can be developed that would capture student performance on a preassessment or allow for