An interesting thing happened when I was visiting Vierra’s third-grade classroom and administering the preassessment. Students were sitting at about six per table, and I was walking around observing when I noticed Vierra hunched over, pencil in hand, writing copiously on her paper. I stopped behind her for just a moment to take a look at what she was writing. No sooner had I stopped when one of the boys at the table announced: “Yes, look at her paper, she is the smart one.” I assured him that he and all of the children at his table were working hard on the task and doing a good job. He thought about that for a minute and said, “Yeah, but she is still the smart one.” I knew then that a lot of work was to be done to build a growth mindset culture in this classroom.

When I was evaluating the preassessments, Vierra’s certainly did stand out so I asked her teacher if I could speak to this student for a few minutes. I complimented Vierra on her hard work and asked her where she learned so much about the brain. She explained that her grandmother was a doctor, and she had learned from her.

I also questioned a first-grade student about a response that was shared on his preassessment. The child wrote that the brain was the place that “keeps the card in.” After questioning the student, it was determined that he was referring to a memory card like those found in a digital camera or some video game devices—a place that stores all of your information. Talk about a 21st-century response!

## Preassess Growth Mindset and Fixed Mindset

Share with students a few common responses from the preassessment on the brain. For example, tell students “You worked hard on your ‘brain papers.’ Many of you said that your brain helps you think!” Explain that they will be learning more about the brain but first you would like to get their opinions on a few statements. Students can use “agree/disagree” signs or thumbs up/thumbs down to respond to the following three statements. These statements are adapted from Carol Dweck’s Mindset Works ([http://www.mindsetworks.com](http://www.mindsetworks.com)) workshop.

Tell students, “I am going to read and show you a few sentences. If you agree with them, then hold up your agree sign and if you disagree, then hold