on external factors like these.) Our goal is to encourage students to internalize the belief that their own actions and behaviors, not external factors, guide them to achievement or failure.

> **attribution theory**  
> a theory that suggests that successful people will often attribute their success to effort (an internal factor) while those who are unsuccessful tend to attribute their lack of success or failure to the difficulty of the task and/or to just having bad luck (external factors)

In Daniel Pink’s 2009 book, *Drive: The Surprising Truth About What Motivates Us*, he presents a good case for intrinsic rather than extrinsic rewards. Intrinsic rewards refer to the personal satisfaction a person feels when something is accomplished, when no outside incentives are in place. Extrinsic rewards come from an outside place, usually a teacher or a parent who promises a “prize,” sticker, even money if a child demonstrates success. Pink shows how this can affect a student’s performance when he writes,

> In environments where extrinsic rewards are most salient, many people work only to the point that triggers the reward—and no further. So if students get a prize for reading three books, many won’t pick up a fourth, let alone embark on a lifetime of reading. (p. 58)

Pink goes on to explain that the practice of trying to motivate by promising rewards has many flaws. Extinguishing student creativity and fostering short-term thinking are a few issues that can surface when students are promised a “reward” to reach a predetermined goal. Instead, the “reward” can be the praise students receive regarding the effort and persistence they put forth coupled with that positive internal feeling that we all get when we have mastered something new. Accomplishing a challenging task is inherently enjoyable.

**intrinsic rewards**