15

at the point where she can teach others about the standards. How will this connection change? At this point, demonstrate how this thread of a connection is replaced with a strong, thick rope.

What if Sara decides that she is no longer interested in CCSS, wins the lottery, and decides to retire? What will happen to this connection? (It will stay a weak connection or disconnect entirely.)

Ask participants to think of a time when they felt frustrated learning something new. Ask them to visualize their neurons making stronger connections every time they push through the challenge and master new learning. Think about these neural connections when you are faced with a challenge. Once you build a strong connection, you have added density to your brain and actually made yourself smarter!

Now, discuss student mindset:
- Not only is the growth mindset in step with what we are discovering about learning and the brain, but in working with students, the growth mindset is more constructive and produces better achievement outcomes.
- Students with a growth mindset:
  - Are more motivated to learn
  - Want to work harder
  - Are less discouraged by challenge
  - Use more effective strategies for learning
  - Achieve at a higher level

At your table, discuss some possible actions that you can take in your classroom to begin developing a growth mindset culture. These actions should address ways to:
- value effort and persistence,
- teach students about the malleability of the mind, and
- share growth mindset with students.