can increase their ability to remember new information and will do better academically.

## Sample Learning Task #5: Collection Strategy

In this learning task, a collection of objects assembled around a specific concept is used to help students develop classification strategies, analyze attributes of objects, and discover relationships between items. This strategy is based on Jerome Bruner’s Concept Formation model. It is also a powerful tool for developing critical thinking. There are two kinds of collections, serial and revealed. In a revealed collection, all objects are displayed at the same time. If the common link between the objects is obvious, a revealed collection works well. The focus would be on finding similarities and differences within the group. A set of toy animals or models of transportation that share a connection would make an appropriate revealed collection. A serial collection is used when items are displayed one at a time. After each item, the teacher records students’ predictions on index cards as to what the common concept might be for all objects in the collection. With each item that is presented, remove the cards with concepts that no longer work. The last item in this collection is the validator. The validator should help solidify the common concept of the collection. It is possible that many ideas remain that could work to describe the concept presented, that is fine. Just share with the students what you were thinking of. Perhaps they can think of some additional items that would fit in the collection.

When doing this task with students, I like to present the following items in the collection:
- dollhouse bed, pillow, or another symbol of sleep
- toy bike, skate, ball, or an athletic shoe to represent exercise
- banana
- bottle of water
- nuts (picture or plastic if there are allergies)
- egg
- fish (plastic or a picture)
- a science book
- a picture of a school or something to represent a classroom