teachers to input data and make recommendations as to the areas that need to be revised, where content gaps can be filled in, and most importantly, what instruction can be eliminated—in other words, where to compact the curriculum.

## Curriculum Compacting

Curriculum compacting was originally developed by Joseph Renzulli and Linda Smith many, many years ago. It is interesting that it is a relatively “old” strategy that few teachers know about. When preparing to teach graduate school courses on the topic of differentiation, I always send out an electronic preassessment to try to gauge the understanding of the students prior to the start of the course. The results help me adjust the pacing based on the needs of the class as a whole (not to mention that differentiation is being modeled for the students). Without fail, every time I analyze the results, the area that surfaces as the greatest need for my students is curriculum compacting. Most don’t even know what it is, and the graduate students who know what it is do not know how to implement it.

Curriculum compacting is an instructional strategy that streamlines grade-level curriculum by eliminating content that students have previously learned. Think about what a trash compactor does: It takes a large amount of trash and compacts it down to a little bit of space. Now think about curriculum (I am by no means referring to curriculum as trash!): For some students, that big expanse of curriculum can be taught in less time, and some of this curriculum can even be eliminated for some students. Compacting buys time for students to go deeper and wider into the content and/or accelerate to above-grade-level indicators. Does every child in your class need the same amount of time to read and discuss a novel? Understand and apply a mathematical process? Educators must be willing to compact curriculum for those students who are ready to go on. How do we know when they are ready?

**curriculum compacting**  
an instructional strategy that streamlines grade-level curriculum by eliminating content that students have previously learned