Enrichment is about going deeper into the learning. Can students apply the skill, concept, or process to different situations? Can they think critically about the content? Do students have the ability to reason with the material? It is usually a good idea to add at least a thin layer of enrichment before acceleration, especially if the preassessment captures only a surface level of understanding. If the preassessment measures the depth of understanding—for example, application of the concept or skill—then perhaps the student is ready to be accelerated without making an enrichment stop. Whether acceleration and/or enrichment occur, it is important to look carefully at instructional experiences to make sure they are laden with opportunities to think critically.

**enrichment**  
learning with greater depth and breadth; going deep and wide into the content

## Formative Assessment

Formative assessment, or checking for understanding, is non-negotiable in a responsive, growth mindset classroom. Checking for understanding during the course of instruction contributes to opportunities for students to have access to complex and engaging instruction. It is through formative assessment that educators determine the content and the pace by which students grasp concepts. Through formative assessment, teachers also learn who has not yet grasped a concept and make plans to approach the instruction again in a new way. Ongoing, formative assessment plays a crucial role in teacher decision making and should be routinely used across all content areas.

Douglas Fisher and Nancy Frey, authors of *Checking for Understanding: Formative Assessment Techniques for Your Classroom* (2007) described formative assessment well:

> Formative assessments are ongoing assessments, reviews, and observations in a classroom. Teachers use formative assessment to improve instructional methods and provide student feedback