## CHAPTER 3

# WHY IS A DIFFERENTIATED, RESPONSIVE CLASSROOM IMPORTANT TO A GROWTH MINDSET CULTURE?

> “My brain is getting smarter and smarter each day.”—Grade 1 student

The mindset of a teacher contributes greatly to his or her responsiveness to the needs of students. If an educator views a child through a deficit lens, then that child will not be given opportunities to grow unless she is in a responsive classroom. Deficit thinking is a practice of making assumptions about a child’s ability based on perceived deficits or because of race, low-income status, English language acquisition, or a variety of other factors. Educators who value differentiated instruction need to be very aware about the beliefs they hold deep within themselves regarding student intelligence. I would argue that it is not possible to plan and facilitate an effective, differentiated, responsive classroom if an educator does not really possess the belief that intelligence can develop. Differentiation is responsive instruction. Ask five teachers what “differentiation” means to them and you are likely to get five different responses. To put it simply, differentiation is the way a teacher responds to a student’s needs.

**differentiation**  
the way a teacher responds to a student’s needs so that each student is challenged at the appropriate level

Let’s make an assumption that you have a growth mindset and want to be responsive to the potential in all of your students. Do you know how to effectively differentiate/be responsive to the needs of your students? What