After the demonstration, conduct a formative assessment by asking students to recall everything that they have learned about the brain so far. Chart their responses. The main ideas you will want to capture include:
- Your brain can grow and get stronger.
- Neurons in your brain make new pathways or connections when you learn.
- Your brain is like a muscle.
- Exercise (learning and embracing challenge) is good for your brain.
- When you learn something that is at first challenging, keep practicing! This helps your brain get stronger.

## Sample Learning Task #4: Taking Care of Your Brain

Explain to the students that it is also very important that your brain gets enough sleep. Studies have shown that lack of sleep affects memory and increases the time it takes to perform certain tasks. Have each student generate a plan that will make sure that he or she gets enough sleep each night.

Older students can research foods that are considered super brain foods. For younger students, explain that certain foods also have an effect on the way the brain functions. Ask students if they know of any foods that are super brain foods. Using picture or plastic foods, show students a few of the best brain foods. One at a time, reveal and discuss the following: eggs, fish, nuts, berries, and bananas. It is important to note that students should eat these foods, as well as other healthy foods, routinely, not just on the morning of a test! As one fifth-grade student announced after this discussion, “Before my test tomorrow, I am going to have a crab omelet with blueberries, bananas, and nuts on the side!” Such comments are a great way to show the importance of taking care of your brain at all times. Point out that it is also important for our brain to drink lots of water and stay hydrated.

Explain to students that physical exercise can also increase brain power. Exercise sends a higher level of oxygen to the brain. This extra oxygen makes the brain more alert. When people exercise on a regular basis, they typically