# CHAPTER 6

## WHAT MESSAGES SHOULD PARENTS HEAR ABOUT GROWTH MINDSET?

> “Can you explain the value of failure to my parents?”—Grade 11 student

Another stop along the path to a growth mindset school culture is to develop a plan for sharing information about the malleability of the mind with parents. Even if a school or district is well on its way to developing a growth mindset environment, it is important to get parents educated so that children can hear a consistent message at home.

Parents often struggle with the nature/nurture debate and can attribute a child’s success or lack of success to genetics. As clinical psychologist and author Oliver James (2008) stated, “Simply holding the belief that genes largely or wholly determine you or your children can be toxic” (para. 1). He also made the analogy to mental illness, writing, “If you suffer a mental illness, believing it’s down to genes means you are less likely to recover, probably because you believe there’s nothing you can do about it” (James, 2008, para. 1). Parents, teachers, coaches, scout leaders, and other adult role models should never blame genetics for perceived capabilities. If any adult in a child’s life communicates low expectations either verbally or nonverbally, then achievement can suffer.

A secondary outcome of educating parents about malleable intelligence is for themselves. According to Joel F. Wade (2012), author and life coach,

Adults with growth oriented mindsets are also more likely to engage in more challenging tasks, to persevere and to bounce back from adversity.

Management teams with a growth oriented mindset outperform those with a trait-oriented mindset…. Also very interesting to