CHAPTER 10

SUMMARY

"If you don't practice, your neural connection will break!"—Grade 2 student

The commitment to building and maintaining a learning environment where expectations are high for all students, responsive instruction is the norm, and where all students value effort and perseverance is well worth the time. Adopting some of the components will incite some change, but in order to have the most impact, a symphony of the following should occur:  
- Educators who believe that all students can achieve and be successful.  
- Students who have a conceptual understanding of neural connections and believe that with effort and perseverance they can learn, be successful, and grow their intelligence.  
- Differentiated, responsive instruction that meets students where they are, giving them what they need, when they need it, and how they need it.  
- Critical thinking opportunities that are embedded in curriculum, instruction, and assessment.  
- A broadened conception of “giftedness” that is focused on talent development and domain-specific strength, and relies heavily on the word “potential” rather than the word “gifted.”

Educators teach students, not curriculum. It is time to meet students where they are, expect the best from all of them and provide opportunities for each and every student to succeed. A growth mindset school culture will most definitely open doors for all students.

On a personal note, several years ago I was deep into the whole malleable intelligence, growth and fixed mindset research and provided