Professional development for the first year of the project focused on ways that teachers could build students’ reasoning abilities, therefore the teachers learned instructional strategies that develop reasoning across all content areas. These included strategies that focused on deductive, analogical, and quantitative reasoning, as well as concept attainment and concept formation strategies. (Note that several of these strategies are embedded in the student lessons that were provided for the teachers. See Chapter 8 for examples of these lessons.)

# Nonverbal Reasoning Games and Their Outcomes on Mindset in the Critical Thinking Growth Mindset Project

Embedding opportunities to reason in different ways with a variety of materials as often as possible was a goal for these classrooms. It was decided that another layer would be added by introducing some engaging nonverbal reasoning games into the classrooms. But first, it would be important to allow teachers to interact with these games so that they could really understand the challenge that students would face while progressing through the levels of the games. After review of many games, it was decided that each of the 53 classrooms would receive five specially selected games from Thinkfun, a company that specializes in developing games that build reasoning skills. The games that were chosen, ShapeOmetry (formerly known as TopThis!), Chocolate Fix, Brick by Brick, Rush Hour, and Math Dice Jr, specifically practiced quantitative and deductive reasoning in a nonverbal format. The games also increased the level of challenge as the children made their way up through each level. The project now had three important components:

1. Teachers and students building a growth mindset culture, including development of a conceptual understanding of basic brain function.
2. Teachers using instructional strategies that nurtured and developed critical thinking processes, specifically reasoning.
3. Access to nonverbal reasoning games that would be used as math anchor activities or warm-ups and would be available during inside recess, before and after school, etc.