The preassessment plays a major role in determining candidates for curriculum compacting. Other behaviors in the classroom also give us clues. For example, if a student shows great interest and motivation in a particular area of study, then we know we can move him or her into deeper understanding of those concepts. For example, Mr. Smith previewed and preassessed student knowledge of World War II and several students demonstrated a strong conceptual understanding of this time in history. However, Mr. Smith was not really sure about one student, Patrick. Even though Patrick’s preassessment results clearly showed some background knowledge of the topic, it was not enough to decide if Patrick needed compacting. Mr. Smith decided to take a few minutes before class to discuss World War II with this student. After only a few minutes, he clearly saw an enthusiastic interest in the topic from Patrick. The student demonstrated a thirst for knowledge in the subject and asked Mr. Smith great questions. This exchange, in combination with the preassessment, gave Mr. Smith the data he needed to determine that Patrick needed to be in the compacting group for this unit of study.

Other behaviors that suggest a need for compacting include students who consistently finish work early and accurately and those who express an interest in pursuing advanced topics. Another clue to the need for compacting can surface in those students who often create their own diversions in class. Many of the students who create these distractions do so because they have time to. In other words, they have finished their work and are filling their time with less productive behaviors.

Renzulli, Smith, and Reis (1982) developed a tool to assist teachers in planning for compacting. Their Compactor tool provides teachers with an opportunity to define the outcomes of instruction, then determine and document the students who have complete or partial mastery and provide replacement options for those students who need it. The Compactor can serve as a useful conceptual tool for teachers when they begin to implement compacting in their classroom, with one exception—the third column of the compactor is entitled “Acceleration and/or Enrichment Activities.” Educators need to be careful when interpreting the word “activities,” as this alternate opportunity is about instruction, not just an activity. What