discussed. It is possible that the student is right where he or she should be and that the teacher does provide opportunities through both ongoing assessment and student observation. However, it is also possible that a student is not provided with access to higher level learning experiences due to the teacher’s perception of the child’s intelligence or perhaps the teacher does not have a differentiated classroom where those opportunities exist for any student. This is a more challenging situation for a parent, because communicating the concept of malleable intelligence is not really an appropriate conversation in a parent-teacher conference. However, conversations with the teachers could include some of the following:
- Christopher becomes much more engaged in learning when he feels challenged.
- I noticed that Christopher tends to do better on tasks that require critical thinking—have you noticed the same thing?
- Christopher loves a challenge. I noticed that he is much more motivated when faced with a challenge.
- What does Christopher need to do to have access to some higher level thinking tasks?

Parents need to gauge the level of information to share based on the openness of the teacher and school administrator. At minimum, parents could stop by the principal’s office or send an e-mail to a teacher or administrator with a message such as, “I found this really interesting book/article about mindsets and education that you also might find interesting.” (An article I like is “Mind-sets and Equitable Education” from the *Principal Leadership* journal, a great synthesis of Dweck’s work; see Dweck, 2010, in the reference list for the full information on this article.) Parents can then provide the resources or link to them in an e-mail.

However, things do not always go as planned. For example, during a parent-teacher conference for one of my children, I mentioned to a science teacher that my child did not feel like she could be successful in science due in part to a previous negative experience in science. (The teacher told her that she was just not a science person.) Of course, my hope in sharing that information would be a response that would assure me that he would send positive messages her way, help her anyway that he can, and praise all of the