_____ to exercise everyday with this weight, after a lot of practice what will happen to his arm muscle?” Actual student responses I’ve heard have included: “He will get stronger,” “He will make a strong muscle,” and “It will get easier to do.” Explain to the students that the more he practices using the weight, the easier it gets. Ask students why this will happen. Students may answer with something like, “Because he practiced every day, he learned how to do it.” Continue to question students, “If he wants more of a challenge and wants to continue to build more muscle, what should he do?”

- Then, show students a 3-pound (older students may want to use a 10-pound weight) weight and hand it to the student who is giving the demonstration. Ask him how the weight feels compared to the 2-pound weight. Acknowledge that it is heavier, but with practice, it will become easier to lift. The teacher could further explain the concept by using an example of something students learned earlier in the year and comparing it to something they are learning now. One first-grade student explained it this way: “The lighter weight is like when you learned to count to 10. You practiced until it became easy. The heavier weight is like learning to count to 100! It is a little harder, but if you practice, it becomes easier.”

- Ask students to think about how practicing with two different-sized weights is like a brain. Explain that we need to keep trying to learn new things to help our brain get really strong! The neurons make more connections and make our brain stronger just like arms make more muscles from the weights. Tell students, “So even when we face something really hard or challenging, think about all of those new connections your brain is making and how much stronger it is getting!”

You may also want to incorporate the use of the book, *Your Fantastic Elastic Brain: Stretch It, Shape It* by JoAnn Deak, when you’re explaining these concepts to elementary students. This book explains the various functions of the brain, how it grows and connects, and what the different parts of the brain look like and do.