You can see how depressed these scores were. After just 7 months into the project, scores improved dramatically (see Table 3). All six schools averaged growth of 8 percentile points in analogical reasoning and 7 percentile points for quantitative reasoning.

**Table 3**  
Scores of Students After 7 Months in the Critical Thinking Growth Mindset Project

|          | Analogical Reasoning Percentile Mean Score | Quantitative Reasoning Percentile Mean Score | Target Percentile |
|----------|--------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------|-------------------|
| 2012     | 59(+8)                                     | 50(+7)                                       | 80                |
| 2011     | 51                                         | 43                                           | 80                |
| 2010     | 50                                         | 43                                           | 80                |

One school made a jump of 21 percentile points on the quantitative reasoning subtest and another jumped 14 points in analogical reasoning. Although there is still a long way to go to get close to the benchmark, realize that we were on to something. That “something” is the combination of a growth mindset partnered with increased opportunities for critical thinking. Take a look at the following comments made by some of the teachers at the end of the first year of the project:

- “The perspective of students shifted completely. Whenever there was a difficult task, students would talk about determination, motivation, and persistence.”
- “I found that their beliefs about how they can ‘grow smart’ changed as they would encourage each other by saying things like, ‘You can do it!’ and ‘You can get smarter if you try harder!’”
- “My students constantly referred to having growth mindsets when setbacks occurred; it was great!”
- “I noticed a huge difference in student critical thinking as well as students’ core beliefs that they could try hard and keep trying and succeed. I heard much less ‘I can’t’ and more ‘I have to keep trying.’”