students. Anchors should enrich the learning of the content being studied. They are similar to centers but are typically available for the duration of a unit of study, quarter, or semester. For example, if students were learning about the election process in the United States, the anchor activities would also be about the election process. Or if you were implementing the professional development plan on mindsets and intelligence discussed in Chapter 1, you might provide the following anchor activity to the teachers/staff members:

> If you finish an activity or reading early, please look through this folder and choose an article of interest that discusses various aspects of persistence, motivation, effort, and malleable intelligence.

Anchors can also serve as an opportunity to enrich learning by going deeper into the subject area. These tasks extend the learning and are developed as tasks that can be completed successfully independent of the teacher. Anchor activities are not busy work! They are meaningful tasks that are a natural extension of student learning. Take, for example, a class studying the U.S. election process, the teacher might be extending the learning of a group of students who demonstrated understanding based on a preassessment. The rest of the class is reading and answering some questions about what they read. Two of these students finish their work so they now have an opportunity to visit some anchor activities. In this case, the teacher has developed an anchor requiring the analysis of political cartoons. The students find a file of political cartoons from U.S. history that communicate a message about political parties or a special historical election. Using guiding questions and/or a graphic organizer, students analyze the message of the cartoon. They may even categorize cartoons together that send a similar message. This task is meaningful and requires critical thinking while freeing the teacher up to work with another group of students. An added bonus is that this type of anchor does not require a grade, because it is interpretive. The students simply need to put forth effort and justify their thinking.