more motivated to work toward mastery and will persist and persevere until they do.

Educators who value the importance of providing challenging opportunities for students find that students react to the challenge in different ways. Some students have a “Bring it on!” approach and embrace the challenge with enthusiasm. These students realize that they may not be successful and might even fail at a task or two, but want to take the risk and stretch themselves. Other students feel threatened by the challenge, are afraid they will not succeed, and will often give up before they put much effort into it.

It is imperative that teachers develop a climate in their classroom where failure is celebrated and students learn to reflect and redirect so that they can approach a challenging task in a new way or with more effort. Teachers can model this behavior themselves in the classroom. The famous entrepreneur and entertainer, Walt Disney, saw the potential for taking risks: “Around here, however, we don’t look backwards for very long. We keep moving forward, opening up new doors and doing new things because we’re curious, and curiosity keeps leading us down new paths.”

## Motivation

It is hard to discuss failure without also considering motivation. Social scientist Bernard Weiner (1974, 1980) is best known for his work with attribution theory (see [http://education.purduecal.edu/Vockell/EdPsyBook/Edpsy5/edpsy5_attribution.htm](http://education.purduecal.edu/Vockell/EdPsyBook/Edpsy5/edpsy5_attribution.htm) for a good overview of attribution theory). Weiner’s theory focuses on motivation and achievement and he considers the most important factors affecting achievement to be ability, effort, task difficulty, and luck. Any of those factors sound familiar? Weiner’s research on effort was the precursor to growth mindset theory. According to the attribution theory, successful people will often attribute their success to effort, an internal factor. Those who are unsuccessful tend to attribute their lack of success or failure to the difficulty of the task and/or to just having bad luck. (Remember the mention of John McEnroe in Chapter 1? Dweck [2006] uses him throughout her book as an example of a person with a fixed mindset who blamed his failures