Angelou’s “You may encounter many defeats, but you must not be defeated. In fact, it may be necessary to encounter the defeats, so you can know who you are, what you can rise from, how you can still come out of it.” can serve as a vehicle to begin a critical discussion or debate about the value of failure.

Younger students can be shown a film clip and become engaged in discussion. As mentioned earlier, there is a scene in Disney’s *Meet the Robinsons* movie where Lewis creates an invention that combines peanut butter and jelly and it fails. (Search “Meet the Robinsons Failure Scene” on YouTube.) It is effective to stop the video clip right after Lewis buries his face in his hands and apologizes for the failure of his invention. Students can then be asked some of the following questions:

* How does the boy react to the way his invention worked?
* Why do you think he reacts this way?
* What do you think he will do next?
* If you were the boy, how would you react?
* How do you think the adults in the room will react to this situation? Why?

Continue to show the rest of the clip where the adults happily yell, “You’ve failed! From failure, you learn, from success … not so much.” Continue engaging the students in discussion:

* Why did the adults react this way?
* What does it mean when they say “From failure, you learn, from success … not so much.”? Do you agree with this statement? Why or why not?
* Think of a time when you have failed at something. It might be schoolwork, learning to play a musical instrument, making a clay pot, ice skating … anything. (Give students an opportunity to think.) Now think about how you reacted to that failure. Did you give up? Try again in a different way? Try again the same way? Get angry? Cry? Celebrate?
* Let’s brainstorm some ways that we can react in a positive way to failure. What are some things we can reflect on or ask ourselves when we do not succeed?