indicated that the vast majority of these children believed that the brain’s functions are limited to intellectual activity. In other words, they believed it is strictly used for thinking. Based on these results, a second study was conducted that determined that this very narrow view of brain function could be broadened even with brief classroom instruction. In this case, lessons were designed to teach kids about the brain’s broader involvement with their five senses, physical activity, and everyday actions. This study found that even with a brief classroom lessons, first-grade students became significantly more aware of their brain’s involvement with all of their senses rather than maintaining the narrow view of “My brain helps me think.”

## Step 6: Educate Parents

Over the last several years I have done many workshops for educators, as well as parents, on the topic of malleable intelligence and growth mindset. It is often a wake-up call for many of the parents I work with when I begin discussing the importance of having a growth mindset and not looking at their children through a lens of perceived intelligence. At the conclusion of these parent workshops, I take a few moments and ask parents to reflect on what they just heard. They are asked to jot down what they are thinking and what they are planning as a result of the presentation. Many are reflective about the way they speak to their kids. For example, one parent shared,

> I am planning on starting to make changes tomorrow morning during “morning rush.” Instead of saying, “You’re so slow” or “You’re such a slowpoke,” I will say “I really appreciate the effort that you put forth to get to school on time.” I need to make a lot of changes.

It is also interesting to note that in almost every workshop, a parent asks, “Well, do the teachers know about this?” More ideas for parents can be found in Chapter 6.

## The Final Step: Monitor, Evaluate, and Review School Protocols