learning minus subsequent forgetting and you likely won't see what you had hoped to see. Managing forgetting is as important as managing learning (but isn't as visible).

This is especially relevant because only knowledge in long-term memory can be used without reducing working memory available for other tasks or eroding perception. If you ask a higher-order question, such as “Can you find another way to solve this problem?” then the answer is likely to be *no* if working memory is required in service of the calculations. If you want higher-order thinking or greater perception from students, help them to free their working memory at the moment you want them engaging with those tasks by making the skills they're using in the moment more fluid. This is why reading fluency and automaticity with math facts are critical—they are necessary because we don't want students thinking about these things at crucial moments, and fluency is the only way around the problem of working memory. You cannot perceive the author's tone if your working memory must be engaged to parse the syntax of the passage you are reading. When the foundational skills are not fully automatic it is very difficult to have profound or insightful thoughts during reading; bright and eager children can thus fail to have much to say about a passage they have read because their working memory was spent figuring out the words. Background knowledge is similar. You cannot make a leap to connect the prime minister’s attitude to his predecessor a century before unless that knowledge is in your long-term memory. “Looking it up on Google” actually requires your working memory.⁸

So what's the ideal number of interactions required with content if we want to encode it in long-term memory? Research suggests three or four but with many caveats and a lot of unknowns. In *The Hidden Lives of Learners*, Graham Nuthall, for example, finds that whether students