little more. Maggie laughs and gently puts a hand on his shoulder to show her appreciation.

Arshe keeps reading. It's a complex text (Lexile 870) but with encouragement he's not only thriving, he's bringing a little more expression to his reading. Another appreciative chuckle from Maggie and then it's Brianna's turn. She's perhaps a bit more halting. Again Maggie is gathering data here on how well everyone can read the text. She asks Brianna to reread a sentence to ensure correct decoding, but she does so easily and with an appreciative laugh like the one she had for Arshe's reading. Brianna gets the point: you're doing fine; keep reading. And she does. Suddenly she's cantering along and crushing it on some very challenging syntax.

Maggie steps in next. She's able to read a bit faster. There are probably kids in the room who want to move the story along. Her bridging helps keep the momentum and their attention. Notice that she's chosen an especially critical passage to read herself and notice how slow and thoughtful her model is. Then she passes the reading to Mel and then to Ronnie, who responds to her request to use expressive reading to depict an irritated Atticus.

This is the only time she's taken a volunteer—the rest of the time she's selected the reader. But here she wants real energy, top-of-the-line expressiveness, and Ronnie does a beautiful job.

It's worth noting that you are seeing effect as much as cause here. Maggie's students read this difficult text so well and with such pleasure and appreciation because they *FASE Read* so often and because the norm of expressive reading is so well established! In Maggie's classroom, expressive, joyful reading is what you do. It's also worth noting that this is an eighth-grade classroom. Sadly, few students this age get the pleasure and benefit of the kind of