or to fail to rein in the freedoms when students struggle, which means poor systems and routines for the year. Earning autonomy will help students value and understand it.

# Better Late Than Never: Tips for Rebooting Procedures and Routines

Procedures are best installed and routinized at the beginning of the year, but there are always times when a new procedure or system (that is, a set of related procedures) needs to be installed midyear. Culture has begun to slip, or morale to wane. You realize several months into the year that there's something you wish you'd routinized from the outset. Perhaps you've even arrived new, midyear, and in the wake of a teacher without systems and have been asked to rebuild the culture. A classroom “reset,” which often involves rolling out brand-new systems and reintroducing or modifying old ones, can be a necessity. Before you reset, consider these tips to ensure that it goes as smoothly as possible:

- **Set a goal:** Connect the reboot to an inspiring, headline-grabbing goal or important date—right now or in the future (for example, “We only have 60 days left until we take our comprehensive exams. We need to be ready so we're going to sharpen up the little things”).
- **Reboot after a break.** Take advantage of these periods away from class; they provide you with a natural excuse to reintroduce old procedures or to make a clean break from the past. (“We're just back from the long weekend and it's a good time to get all our procedures sharpened up so we're really focused and engaged for our next novel.”)