distracted and wants Emily's attention and is going to miss out on the learning. I'll unpack the details of her lovely interaction to get him back to learning later in the chapter, but it's not just her tone that expresses love and caring. It's the action itself. It will matter that Joshua learn the content of this lesson and learn to be a scholar if he is to thrive. To care about him is to get him back on track.

“It is not possible for everyone's desires to be met at the same time as everyone else's,” Tom Bennett reminds us in *Running the Room*. “At times individual wants will be balanced with the greater good of the community… . It is impossible for everyone to behave as they please.” This is to say that you cannot be a teacher and not be prepared to ask or require some students to sometimes do what they are not inclined to do. Doing so is the exercise of the responsibility we are entrusted with, not the abuse of authority.

And—here comes a summary of what this chapter is about—most of the tasks required of us to ensure the right kind and amount of order can be done warmly and graciously, in a caring manner and often with a smile. With skill they can be made less visible (in fact one of the main skills I try to point out in *technique 55, Least Invasive Intervention*, is making them as invisible as you can) and can be stripped of caustic emotions (*technique 56, Firm, Calm Finesse*). Or, even better, moments of conflict can be headed off and prevented before they even happen. Or many of them can. We cannot all achieve Emily Bisso's state of grace in the Joshua interaction; not every interaction can be solved quite so simply and happily. But the goal is to remember what Emily is telling us as much as what she is telling Joshua: *I do this because I care and in being attentive to my technique I am most able to do it in ways that help students thrive*. In fact, Emily's success is as much a result of her mastery of “quiet presence,” “economy of language,”