- Understanding different points of view
- Regulating emotions
- Self-monitoring (keeping track of what you're doing)

Students paced themselves and managed their own time. They listened carefully and drew out the best from their classmates when they worked together. The room seemed to run itself.

Paradoxically, the autonomy and self-management that were so much a part of the student experience were the products of structure and planning; students had made habits of a series of procedures Sam and Meghan had designed—how to work at your desk; how to manage materials; how to move from place to place in the room; how to ask for help if you were confused and the teacher was busy teaching others—and it was this very structure and planning, ironically, that allowed for greater autonomy. The moments when a brief reminder from Sam initiated a perfectly orchestrated transition were not in contrast to the moments when students worked at their desks with independence; they allowed them, fostered them, and made them productive.

Sam and Meghan had invested heavily in their *procedures*, which provide students with explicit guidance on how to execute recurring tasks such as working independently, transitioning between small groups, and answering questions in class. During the first few weeks of the year, they relied on constant practice to reinforce expectations. If you'd seen them then, you might not have understood where it was all leading—Why all the structure? Why all the “just so” with every little piece? Why so much focus on the *process for moving from place to place or participating in discussion*? But each of those “just so” pieces took its place within a system, a network of procedures that allowed Sam