own. People are kind and considerate because, at Michaela, it's what they do—it's their habit.

But the gratitude, I think, is as much about the giver as the recipient. Maybe that's the most important point. To show gratitude causes you to look for and then to see the goodness around you, and therefore to perceive a world full of goodness all around you. Which makes you happy. And just maybe optimistic—to think the world is the kind of place that will embrace you when you give your best. The habit of showing gratitude caused students to see more things to be grateful for, to have a more positive view of the world. They saw it as a place where people were likely to smile at them, help them, support them. Building a habit of seeing it made it appear everywhere. In the *Happiness Advantage*, Shawn Achor describes this as the Tetris Effect. You play enough Tetris and you see its characteristic shapes everywhere. Similarly, you see enough hard work behaviors from your peers, enough generosity and kindness, enough academic success, and it changes your view of the world. And this, too, is something we can use in the classroom, recognizing that where we direct our students' attention can be a self-fulfilling prophecy. Narrating the good, the hard work, and the productivity around them helps them to see it when it is present and to learn more from observing it.

# PRINCIPLE 3: WHAT STUDENTS ATTEND TO IS WHAT THEY WILL LEARN ABOUT

Graham Nuthall's *The Hidden Loves of Learners* is a fascinating book in part because of its description of tiny and otherwise mundane moments in the lives of ordinary students.12 As I noted before, one of his main premises is