common name “Control the Game”). The kids cheer! I promise we did not pay them to do that! But it suggests the powerful sense of joy and belonging fostered by shared reading. *FASE Reading* is a pleasure, they are telling us.

Jill starts by modeling. She's saying (implicitly): *Here is what a historical text sounds like read aloud*. And just as powerfully: *Here is how I'll expect you to sound when you read aloud*. She's norm setting. Notice how she doesn't race. Commonly students will try to show their skill by reading fast. She wants them to show their skill through expression—by making meaning audible—not speed. You can hear, too, that the text is challenging! But Jill's students persist with relish. They see one another openly embracing challenge—no one's reading is perfect, but everyone is OK with that. And of course as they work toward fluency at this level of complexity, Jill is gathering critical data. She is also teaching them to sustain focus and effort when the going gets hard. All those things—the persistence, the expression—will translate into their independent reading, as well.

Now let's look at Maggie's class: In the video *Maggie Johnson: Grew Serious*, her eighth graders are reading *To Kill a Mockingbird*. It's a challenging text but look how they rise to the occasion. Maggie goes first. Her reading is a model of expressive reading. Arshe is next. He begins reading ably but Maggie encourages a bit more expression: “You can give me a little bit more than that,” she says. Call it gentle encouragement, permission to be expressive. This is important. Reading is social and we want a memorable experience with the text and for students to create as much meaning as possible through their reading. We want students to see one another doing that.

Notice the faint smile on Arshe's face as he rereads. He reads beautifully. Suddenly the story does come to life a