# Provide a Rule

In Christy Huelskamp's sixth-grade reading class at Williamsburg Collegiate in Brooklyn, a student guessed incorrectly that *indiscriminate* was a verb when used in the sentence, “James was an indiscriminate reader; he would pick up any book from the library and read it cover to cover.” Christy replied with a rule: “A verb is an action or a state of being. Is ‘indiscriminate’ an action?” The student quickly recognized that it was modifying a noun. “It’s an adjective,” she said.

# Provide the Missing (or First) Step

When a student in her fifth-grade math class was unable to explain what was wrong with writing the number fifteen-sixths, Kelli Ragain cued: “Well, what do we always do when the numerator is larger than the denominator?” Instantly the student caught on. “Oh, we need to make a mixed number. So I divide six into fifteen.”

# Roll-Back

Sometimes it’s sufficient to repeat a student’s answer back to him or her. Many of us instantly recognize our errors when they’re played back for us, as if on tape. You can see a great example of this in the video *Jessica Bracey: What You Said Is*.

Jessica is reading a novel called *Circle of Gold* with her fifth graders. She calls on a student, Gavin, to analyze the character Toni’s actions. His first answer is solid and he observes correctly that Toni is a sneaky character and that she is trying to trick Angel and Charlene into revealing their dishonesty, so Jessica follows up with another: “Why is that important?” Gavin does well here, too. It’s important because if Toni tricks them, she’ll reveal the truth about a stolen bracelet and defend her friend Mattie’s honor. Now