discussion people don't just talk about anything they want at any time.

## Managing the Meta

This is an example of what I call *managing the meta*, the first part of the technique *Disciplined Discussion*, which encourages focus and self-awareness in discussion. That sometimes requires keeping a discussion “inside the box,” and reminding students “Let's stay on our original topic right now” or asking, “How is this connected to the topic at hand?”

## Intentional Reflection

The second part of *Disciplined Discussions* is *intentional reflection*, an adaptation of *stamping*, a term Paul Bambrick-Santoyo uses to describe writing after a discussion in which participants summarize key ideas or, in this case, reflect deliberately on questions like: “What did I (or we) learn from our discussion?” or “How did your opinions change?” Writing about these topics gives them importance and permanence and ensures that time spent in discussion isn't wasted. As Paul Kirschner and colleagues remind us, learning is a change in long-term memory. The discussion may be rich but unless students remember it, they won't have learned much. Writing helps bridge that gap.

The more time you spend in discussion, the more important it is to make sure that clear takeaways are framed and the process of encoding them in long-term memory is begun. *Intentional reflection* means a discussion doesn't just end with the teacher saying it's over. It ends with the teacher saying something like:

> “Take a minute to jot down your takeaways from the discussion.”

Or (to emphasize listening a bit more): “Take a minute to jot down a summary of some of the more useful comments from your peers.”