- **Procedure:** the design a teacher establishes for the way she and her students will efficiently and productively execute a recurring task or action in the classroom.

- **System:** a network of related procedures that help teachers accomplish end goals: help students maintain an organized binder, manage behavior, move materials, participate successfully in a discussion, and so on.

- **Routine:** a procedure or system that has become automatic, which students do either without much oversight, without intentional cognition (in other words, as a habit), and/or of their own volition and without teacher prompting (for example, note-taking while reading).

In the video *Nikki Bowen: Stand Up*, originally published in the book *Great Habits, Great Readers* by Paul Bambrick-Santoyo, Aja Settles, and Juliana Worrell, you can see Nikki's impressive system for students switching literacy groups. Not only does it maximize time for learning by making transitions fast, but it ensures that students arrive at each station with minds focused and ready to learn. Within seconds they're off and running. Among other things, this is a great example of how the terms *system*, *procedure*, and *routine* intersect. Nikki's system for transitions is actually made up of a series of separate component procedures. Once students learned the procedures, practiced them, and linked them together smoothly as habit, they became a *routine*. Separating the *system* into a series of *procedures* allowed Nikki to break the learning process into chunks (in consideration of students' working memory) and to apply the chunks in other classroom systems as well. All of her classroom transitions start with “Learner's Position”—that is, students showing they are attentive and ready—and the process of