fact comparing the books we’d both mentioned and showing that she was thinking about the connection.

We all could have connected our ideas and demonstrated that we were listening, but we didn’t. Our comments were related, but not really a discussion so much as a series of statements loosely grouped around an idea.

Conversations in the classroom are often similar. A discussion is supposed to be a *mutual endeavor* by a group of people to *develop, refine, or contextualize an idea or set of ideas*, and that’s different from a series of loosely related comments. What characterizes discussion in the most successful classrooms is a commitment to connecting and relating ideas and opinions. A discussion that’s valuable will feature comments that are consistently useful to others, not just interesting to those who made them, and which establish the speaker’s understanding of and interest in what was previously said.

People who make a conversation effective *show* they are listening carefully by occasionally offering brief summaries of other participants’ comments or by making a specific effort to connect the point they’re making to what someone else said. A comment that refers back to earlier ideas and strives for that connection makes for a discussion—for example, saying “Funny, the violence didn’t bother me” both clarifies the argument and shows appreciation for what other conversants have said. And it makes us feel like we belong and have things to contribute. It convinces us to share more, and perhaps to believe ourselves to be a little more capable.

Generally, of course, people don’t consciously think, *I’ll make it clear I’m building off someone else’s point or I’ll reinforce that I value the person I’m talking to right now even though I disagree*. Most positive discussion-building actions are habits triggered by a conversant’s intuitive