that students learn ideas and content that they come into contact with three different times—especially if each interaction is comprehensive and if the interactions present the information in slightly different ways. But, he notes, this only applies if students are paying attention, and Nuthall describes a series of experiences that will be familiar to all of us. A group of students are learning about Antarctica, for example, and are supposed to have learned that Antarctica is one of the driest places on earth. Some have and some haven't. Nuthall notices that a student named Teine is whispering to a peer and passing notes while a video is describing the desert nature of Antarctica. Teine fails to learn the content. Another student, Tui, often decides that he already knows the content being taught and so fails to listen carefully. He's not passing notes but he's not attending, and he, too, fails to learn.

This reveals an obvious but important fact about education: In any learning environment some people develop quickly and some people develop more slowly. One major factor in the rates at which individuals learn is their ability to concentrate for a significant period of time. Half-focused or fleetingly focused learners master things more slowly and with more difficulty. This is often apparent to us when we work with students with diagnosed attention issues, but of course the ability to sustain focus is spread unevenly across all students (and adults); its strength is a hidden driver of progress.

As I discuss at greater length in *technique 48*, *Habits of Attention*, “selective attention” is the term for the ability to focus on the task at hand and ignore distraction. It is the ability to select what you pay attention to—to lock out distractions and lock in on the signal—and has “reverberating effects” on success in language, literacy, and mathematics, note cognitive scientists Courtney Stevens and Daphne Bavelier. They add that there are