Further, this approach shows your students that you assume they want to do well and believe they can—it’s just a matter of nailing down some details.

*Confused* is another good assume-the-best word, as in, “Just a minute; some people appear to be confused about the directions, so let me give them again.” Another approach is to assume that the error is your own: “Just a minute, class; I must not have been clear: I want you to find every verb in the paragraph working silently on your own. Do that now.” This last one is especially useful. It draws students’ attention more directly to your belief that only your own lack of clarity would mean lack of instant follow-through by your focused and diligent charges. And, of course, it also forces you to contemplate that, in fact, you may not have been all that clear.

It is important to note that these phrases will not likely work—nor will this approach—if you do not actually believe the best about the students in front of you. As Adeyemi Stembridge writes, “Authenticity is a must for our students. One of their assets is that they can spot frauds at great distances.” If you are doubtful about student confusion, or worse, if you deliver this observation in a sarcastic tone, then you may actually damage the very relationships that you intend to build up.

Another nice way to assume the best is to see minor struggles as the result of misdirected enthusiasm. When you think this way, you suggest that there was a positive intention for a behavior that merely went awry. In a behavioral situation, this might sound like, “Gentlemen, I appreciate your enthusiasm to get to math class, but we need to walk to the door. Let me see you go back and do it the right way.” In an academic setting, it might sound like, “I appreciate that you are trying to build complex and