about. The goal is not merely compliance but excellence, even in the little things.

*Do It Again* can be an effective tool for managing affect. Sometimes people's attitudes change from the outside in. Asking a low-energy class to repeat something with enthusiasm (especially, and critically, while modeling those attributes yourself) can start to be a self-fulfilling prophecy. *Do It Again* is a great opportunity to challenge students positively to show you their best. Saying, “Oooh, let's line up again and prove why we're the best reading group in the school” is often better than saying, “Class, that was very sloppy. We're going to do it again until we get it exactly right,” even if the purpose in both cases is to *Do It Again* until you get it exactly right. You can see Kirby Jarrell do a lovely job of that in *Kirby Jarrell: Go Brown*. The class is timing themselves at how long it takes to get materials from the previous class put away and to have their novels out and ready. Michaela is running the clock and she reports that it took 48 seconds, an excellent time, so Kirby playfully decides to celebrate by having her kids say, “48 seconds? Go Brown!” [They're nicknamed after the university]. Students do it and the energy is a bit mixed. With a warm smile and a bit of bravery—everyone wants to cut bait when an idea appears not to work—Kirby playfully asks students to do it again with more enthusiasm. And they do it! And the energy level rises in the class and students appear energized a bit. It's a tiny throwaway moment but imagine—maybe Kirby keeps the chant for next class, maybe she doesn't—but imagine the message if she'd just let the mediocre follow-through remain the end point. The message might have been *Oh, that was awkward. If Ms. Jarrell asks you to do something silly just wait it out and we'll give up on it.* Here it ends pleasant and off-handed but at no loss to her enthusiastic and playful classroom culture.