have had three interactions with material determines with 80 percent accuracy whether they will have learned it. That is, when he and his colleagues sorted through the things that were taught during a given class and determined whether students had encountered it and attended to it—either through the teacher's instruction or through some other interaction (with peers say)—they could predict with 80 percent accuracy whether students had learned the material. So predictive was this method that Nuttall hypothesizes it is at least possible that “other factors (such as the use of open-ended questions, feedback, advance organizers, relevant examples and analogies and the interest level of the material) ... may not be relevant to student learning except to the extent that they enhance the likelihood that students will encounter [and attend to] relevant content.”9

But of course even if Nuttall's research were conclusive, the complexity and familiarity of content, never mind the quality of the presentation of the material and the attentiveness of students could alter this number. Further, the idea that if you don't hear it all three times you won't learn it becomes especially important in light of research on the constancy of low-level distractions in many classrooms. So would the degree of fluency the content required. “Remembering it” can mean different things. With some knowledge it’s fine if I need a few seconds to pull it out of long-term memory. There's no rush. But some things I need in the blink of an eye and therefore, we can presume, require more iterations to ensure ease and speed of recall.

So how should this principle inform teaching decisions? You'll want to keep working memory free for students, so roll out new content in manageable chunks and be sure to constantly embed short sequences of practice and retrieval. *Cold Call* is a great tool for making everyone do the work of