I've got a million things to do today, what literary device am I using?" All of these strengthen the neural pathway.

Finally, Alonte Johnson reminds us in his literature classroom that we can ask students to retrieve a full range of content types: plot, character, background knowledge, and even themes.

# TECHNIQUE 8: STANDARDIZE THE FORMAT

Though asking questions of students is a great tool to check for understanding, gathering data through observation is arguably even more effective when you can use it. One major benefit of relying on observation to assess student understanding is that it allows you to respond quickly to more complex ideas in more formats than you can assess through questioning alone. Another benefit is that you can “parallel-process”—you can be checking for understanding while students are working. For example, you can quickly observe the quality of your students' thesis paragraphs as they are writing them.

But the greatest advantage of gathering data through observation is its efficiency. Done well it allows you to gather data quickly and about everyone. This is important because gathering data in the midst of instruction is almost always subject to significant time constraints. Say you assign independent work to students for five minutes. By the time you've given students a chance to get started, have answered their questions, and checked to make sure everyone has gotten underway, you might have three minutes to assess thirty students—six seconds per student on average. Many teachers might successfully assess ten students in that amount of time but if you can gather information twice as fast with half as many distractions,