The technique Denarius uses to accomplish this is *Show Call*, choosing a student's work and sharing it, visually, with the class so they are not just talking about it but studying it in a durable sustained way. An essential component of making this sustained study possible is the fact that the mistake is visible to all students. If Denarius had not projected Fagan's work to the class, the class would have learned far less from it.

This opportunity for learning is too important for Denarius to accept anything but the most productive example. Using *Show Call* effectively implies being able to choose deliberately whose work to project. A *Show Call* is therefore not just projecting work but selecting the example regardless of who's volunteered to share. *Show Call* is a visual Cold Call. To learn optimally from an example, students must see it well, and they need to be looking at just the right case study.

You will also probably notice that Fagan, the accomplished young woman whose work he's chosen, is not bothered when Denarius takes her paper. She doesn't look surprised, as you might expect her to have been. It's a familiar procedure, in other words, one that happens, if not daily, then regularly, and one that began with Denarius explaining to the class what he would do and why before he did it the first time. Then they practiced it—tried the idea out under controlled circumstances where success was more assured. For example, the first few times he used *Show Call*, Denarius probably focused on making *Show-Called* students feel honored by and comfortable with the process. Over time his *Show Calls* became more rigorous. Now he doesn't need to explain why he is taking Fagan’s or any student's paper, and students all have learned to engage in error analysis respectfully and productively.