misunderstood about finding the remainder when dividing polynomials. He has recognized an error in real time but this is only half of the equation in *Checking for Understanding*. The second half, deciding how to address it, is a much more challenging question than it appears. Teachers bury the data—recognize student misunderstandings and fail to take action on them—all the time. In many cases this is because of the difficulty of changing one's lesson plan on the spur of the moment in front of thirty students. Or a failure to address the error may be due to the pressure of time. But Denarius hardly bats an eye. He chooses the work of a student, Fagan, who made a characteristic error, walks to the front of the room and projects it to the class. Seconds later the class is engaging with interest and openness in a study of the mistake, why it happened, and what it could teach them.

What's the quickest and most productive way to respond to an error in the midst of teaching, in other words? Often it's to study the error itself.

If you can pull that off, you have a simple, reliable tool to use in response to student errors. If students struggle to understand the first time, you may not have to plan a backup lesson or a new way of teaching the material if you can instead make a useful version of the error instantly visible and then build a culture that supports open study of the thinking that led to a mistake.

That's a powerful idea. If we can find and study our mistakes with openness and fascination, if we can discuss them in substantive conversations, then we have a replicable way to react to error when we see it and we are teaching a process we'd wish our students to copy for much of their lives: Find the mistake. Study it without defensiveness. Relish it as a learning opportunity.