important now when—and this will be another motif of this book—reading as we know it is locked in a death struggle with the cell phone, a battle it is losing badly. It's not just that students read less and less—the data are devastating—it's that they read less and less well. They are more distracted; in states of constant half-attention,23 their eyes flitting down the page looking for the next new thing. So it's not just that we build fluency and reading skills that translate into silent reading as well, it's that it is one of the few ways we can cause students to read for sustained, undistracted periods of time.

## A is for accountability.

“The only way we can ever 100% know that a child is actually reading is if they are reading aloud,” Jo Facer writes in *Simplicity Rules*. And it's the only way we can know *how* they are reading. Your class reading aloud is not just fluency practice, it's not just an exercise in creating community (which I’ll come to in a moment), it's a constant data stream on the reading level of your students on the key texts of your classroom. Nothing could be more data driven.

Making sure students are reading is a big deal—bigger now than five or ten years ago. Yes, I can hear some teachers saying, we should socialize students to read at home as much as we can. But note also that relying on reading happening at home is in part regressive—the strong readers are likely to get more of it—and we increasingly can't be sure that many students read steadily outside of school. We are all addicts to a device engineered to absorb our full attention. Our students are in its thrall the minute they leave school.24 “Any and all systems I have ever come up with [to ensure independent reading at home] have been gamed by students … If you want to ensure pupils are reading, your only bet is to make them do it with you, as a whole class. That's why things like whole class reading of a suitable novel … for 20 to 30 minutes a day are so