check that everyone understands is stressful when you have ground to cover. If it takes forever and disrupts your pacing, or causes you to drop the last activity of your lesson plan, *of course* you won't do it. But if you could double-check in thirty seconds then you might really do it, so one of the keys to replacing self-report with targeted questions is to do it quickly—ideally in less than a minute. If (and only if) you can do it fast will you be likely to do it often. So even if it yields imperfect data, seek to gather what you can through the best questions you can design in a minute or less. You can use the remaining time to review if necessary.

Asking targeted questions can be just as valuable for assessing understanding of *tasks students are about to do* as it is for assessing understanding of *content you've just taught*. If you're sending students off for eight minutes of independent or partner work, it's really good to ask them a few targeted questions about the task so that you don't find out halfway through that they weren't really clear on how to write up their discussion notes or even that they had to write them. Generally speaking, the longer the task you are sending students off to do, the more important it is to assess their clarity on the task beforehand via targeted questions.

Recently I observed a lesson where a teacher wanted her students to read a text, note phrases and phrasings that were intentionally repetitive, and track shifts in who the implicit audience was. They were supposed to work solo for five minutes and then discuss with a partner.

Before she sent students off to do this task, she asked them targeted questions to review. It took her about twenty seconds and she used *Cold Call* to ensure that she wasn't just calling on the kids who thought they knew:

> **Teacher**: Nelson, tell me the two things I want you to look for while you're reading this.