their character or personality rather than to the situation. We often assume intentionality behind a mistake.

You can hear this in classrooms where a teacher's words imply that a student did something wrong deliberately when in fact there is little ground to assume that.

“Stop trying to disrupt class!” “Why won't you use the feedback I gave you on your first draft?” or “Just a minute, class; some people seem to think they don't have to push in their chairs when we line up.” Such statements attribute ill intention to what could be the result of distraction, lack of practice, or genuine misunderstanding. What if the student had tried to incorporate your feedback, or just plain forgot about the chair? How might hearing statements like these make a confused or flustered student feel? Unless you have clear evidence that a behavior was intentional, it's better to assume that your students have tried (and will try) to do as you've asked.

This mindset also helps us as teachers maintain our emotional constancy and equilibrium. Rather than feeling flustered or defensive—*Why won't he follow my directions? Is she trying to get under my skin? How many times have I said this?*—assuming the best helps us model calm assurance. This in turn builds trust—students know we will give them the benefit of the doubt and support them through confusion or struggles without jumping to conclusions or taking their actions too personally.

One of the most useful words for assuming the best is *forgot*, as in, “Just a minute; a couple of us seem to have forgotten to push in their chairs. Let's try that again.” Given the benefit of the doubt, your scholars can focus their energy on doing the task right instead of feeling defensive.