build off of Nyesha's idea?” or “Marty has made an important point!” or “Almost, Mahaira, but I think you’ve left something out.” Only at the end after three comments from students does he step in, asking the class questions about a hypothetical example in which Drayvon works in a factory and asks for more pay.

In addition to socializing strong *Habits of Discussion*, Jason is *Batch Processing*, establishing very short sequences in which students have mini peer-to-peer discussions even within other lesson activities, such as direct instruction or questioning (see [Chapter 6]()). Jason doesn’t have to stop class and announce: “OK, we’ll have a discussion now.” Merely by letting three students have turns directly in a row and not taking a turn himself until the end, he allows a mini-discussion to emerge naturally. He speaks only after three students have offered their commentary rather than responding to each individually. Rather than playing tennis (comments going student-teacher-student-teacher-student-teacher) in Jason’s class, they play volleyball: the comments go student-student-student-teacher.

You can see another example in the video *Josh Sullivan: Say More About That*. As they respond to his question, Josh chooses to let three students speak in a row without comment from him. Or at least without verbal comment. His expression and gestures and the notes he silently writes on the board show that he is listening and that ideas of merit are emerging as students speak. In an environment where strong norms like *Habits of Attention*, *Habits of Discussion*, and of course volunteering through hand-raising are in place, this can facilitate short bursts of student-to-student discourse in the midst of other activities.

Obviously the key is to resist mediating every comment and allow short strings of three or four students to speak in a row. (Then you can step in to comment and steer.) But it’s