aware of knowing about at the moment. If they missed some, if their conception contains misinformation, they won't know it without some way of checking themselves against a fuller description of the concepts they should know and which, to you, are implicit in the question. Ironically, someone with deep understanding of the causes of the Revolution is more likely to answer in the negative: “I still don't totally understand why the Intolerable Acts unified dissent rather than isolating colonial radicals ...”

Ask me, a novice, “Are you clear on the differences between plant and animal cells?” and really you are asking me, “Are you aware of some differences between plant and animal cells?” or “Are you aware that there are differences between plant and animal cells?” “Yes,” I will tell you, as I think of those things I do know which come readily to mind. They are shaped differently and plant cells have a cell wall that's relatively inflexible, I think. *Got it.* As I tell you this, though, I remain unaware that the nucleus is positioned differently within the cell, and I have no idea what lysosomes are. My honest answer is yes, but I don't know what I don't know. Sadly then, the less your students know about a topic, the more likely their *apparent assent* is to be inaccurate.

However, even this example presumes that I am trying very hard to share everything I know about plant and animal cells with you, my teacher. Just as often there are social and psychological barriers that prevent students from revealing their confusion. Let's say that I am aware that I didn't understand the difference between plant and animal cells. Saying “Actually, I don't know” means stopping the room—causing the teacher to go back and re-explain, when the presumption is clearly that she and my classmates do not want to. It means appearing to be, possibly, the only person in the room who didn't get it. Or the only person in the room who doesn't get that you’re not supposed to say