mastery of new and difficult things. The key to mastering complex material with speed and flair, Newport writes, is the ability to sustain states of unbroken attention and deep concentration. Those who can focus best for longest separate themselves from the crowd.

However, Newport also observes that it has never been harder to build these focused mindsets because our daily lives (which include our work and learning environments) socialize distraction, lack of concentration, and states of constant half-attention. They erode rather than build the sorts of locked-in mental focus that ultimately drive so much of success. Concentration, he concludes, has never been better rewarded and never harder to achieve.14

A useful term in understanding why is *attention residue*.15 When you switch from one task to another, your mind remains partially focused on the previous task. You pause during a project to check your email and when you've returned to the project your mind is still partially on your email even if you don't realize it. You're now less likely to do your best work. This is especially corrosive, Newport points out, to learning new and difficult things, but researchers have found that people in most working environments operate in constant states of low-level distraction. It's common for students, too. The average undergraduate student, presumably more mature than K-12 students and an example of academic success and interest, still switches windows every nineteen seconds when working on his or her laptop, for example.

But beyond attention residue is a larger issue: Our brains are neuroplastic, which means they rewire according to how we use them. And the way we, and especially young people, use them increasingly involves constantly switching tasks. Every two and a half minutes is average for an adult; it is surely more for young people. The result is not just