you. Among other things, we know that person could just as well be us.”

When you think about making it safe to struggle, it's important to consider that the goal is not just eliminating potentially negative behaviors among students. Even better would be fostering a culture where students actively support one another as they struggle through the learning process. Collegiate Academies in New Orleans does a great job of encouraging this culture. When someone is struggling to answer a question, peers (or teachers) “send magic,” making a subtle hand gesture that means, “I’m supporting you.” After an answer, if peers wish to show appreciation (they often do), they show it with snapping fingers, thus creating a system for positive student-to-student feedback for quality work.11 This positive culture is one of the most remarkable and powerful things about a remarkable group of schools.

And of course having strong *Habits of Attention* ([technique 48](#)) is critical to ensure that signals of belonging are strong and the importance of each student's ideas is regularly reinforced.

That said, building a classroom culture that respects, normalizes, and values error is complex work, so I've named and described some of the key culture building moves in greater detail so they're easier to use intentionally in your classroom.

# Expect Error

After a mistake occurs, strive to show that you are glad to know about it. We want the overall message to be that errors are a normal part of learning—a positive part, often—and are most useful when they are out in the open.