Sometimes teachers will start the reading themselves to set the tone, occasionally even doing so transparently: “I’ll start reading, then I’ll ask some of you to pick up. Be ready!” Obviously, teacher reading needn’t always bridge. When you do so is obviously discretionary, and part of the art of reading well. Harder texts often demand more bridging—to create more opportunities to model, and to balance the necessarily high rate of slower student readers.

## Spot-Check, a.k.a. Oral Cloze

I learned Oral Cloze from watching Roberto de Leòn teach reading to third-grade boys at Excellence Charter School for Boys in Bedford-Stuyvesant. In one example, Roberto kicked off his reading of *Phantom of the Opera* by leaving a word out at the end of his first sentence: “Carlotta had the …,” he read, signaling to students with his shift in tone of voice that they should fill in the blank. On the day in question, only a handful of his boys chimed in “leading role” exactly on cue. So Rob started over: “Ooh, some boys weren’t quite with us. Let’s try that again. ‘Carlotta had the …,’ ” and all his boys chimed in with “leading role,” demonstrating that they were now following along. This quick device, which Roberto uses throughout his lessons, allows him to assess leverage quickly and simply.

## Use a Placeholder

As you move between reading and questioning students about what they read, it can be helpful to use quick, consistent prompts to ensure that students recognize the transition and react quickly. I call this prompt a *placeholder*, because it ensures that students retain their place in the text and enables a quick and immediate transition back to reading after discussion. “Hold your place. Track me,” announces Patrick Pastore, modeling for his sixth graders how to point to the spot where they left