knowing that listening in might provide them with the juicy details of a classmate's misfortune. Most people can't help but be curious about such things. If, however, my approaching or leaning down to speak quietly with a student is just as likely to be an example of private individual precise praise (PIPP, also discussed in Chapter Eleven), then students will consider the approach with balanced equanimity, and their classmates will have no incentive to eavesdrop. Either message is thus heard more openly by the intended recipient and ignored by those for whom it's not intended.

That said, there are also benefits to loud praise and praise that's semiprivate—that is, deliberately intended to be overheard by others. Praise always walks the line between the benefit of allowing others to overhear what's praiseworthy and thus encouraging them to seek to emulate it, and the benefit of the genuine sincerity of its just being about the recipient. In terms of how to balance these benefits, my sense is that both are more powerful if they aren't entirely predictable and that although socializing and influencing others through praise are beneficial, they're less critical than the long-term benefit of maintaining the credibility and genuineness of praise. I would skew toward privacy a bit more for the most substantive feedback to a student.

# TECHNIQUE 61: WARM/STRICT

In *Culturally Responsive Teaching and the Brain*, Zaretta Hammond describes the critical importance of teachers who are what she calls “warm demanders”: those who combine personal warmth with high expectations and “active demandingness,” which, she writes, “isn't defined as just a no-nonsense firmness with regard to behavior but an insistence on excellence and academic effort.”