ensure that everyone is getting the practice, for example. You'll want to ask students to write before discussions to reduce the strain on working memory of having to remember what they wanted to say, leaving them free to listen to one another's comments, for example.

A final point about the importance of long-term memory comes from a glimpse at what's known as the forgetting curve, which demonstrates the rate at which the typical person forgets things they've learned.

1. Your students first learn something. The 100% means they know as much as they knew.
2. Just minutes later they’ve begun forgetting it. They’re walking to their next class and it’s slipping away ...
3. An hour later what was clear to them is hazy. They remember only some of it.
4. By the next day if it’s new information they may have forgotten more than half of it.
5. Left unabated this process will continue. They won’t forget all of it but they’ll forget a lot.
6. Here your students recall the information after they’ve begun to forget.
7. After this review they begin to forget again but the rate of decay is slower.
8. And in the end they remember a bit more.
9. Your students recall the information again perhaps a day later.
10. After they review they start to forget again but they remember a late more each time.
11. You review with them a few days later.
12. Forgetting is always present but now it’s starting to stick.

The original forgetting curve was derived in the 1880s by the German psychologist Hermann Ebbinghaus and plotted the actual rate at which he was able to remember a series of nonsense syllables after learning them. Though your students aren't learning nonsense syllables, the rate at which they forget what they have learned after they learned it is captured here, and the principle is broadly accepted by cognitive psychologists. The forgetting curve tells us that: