Consider how Roxbury Prep math teacher Jason Armstrong communicated the normalcy of error even before he started reviewing answers to a problem recently. “I suspect there's going to be some disagreement here, so I might hear a couple different people's answers,” he said, before taking *four* different answers from the class. His words implied that the normal state of affairs is to see different answers among smart people doing challenging work. This also serves to teach that math is not just a matter of deciding between a right answer and a wrong one but, sometimes, a matter of deciding among a wide array of plausible answers. If the questions are hard, Jason's teaching intimated, of course people will disagree.

## Withhold the Answer

In the video *Culture of Error Montage* you can see Jason introduce a second problem from the same lesson. His choice of language was again striking:

> OK, now for the four answers we have here, A, B, C, and D, I don't want to start by asking which one you think is right, because I want to focus on the explanations that we have. So let me hear what people think of D. I don't care if you think it's right or wrong; I just want to hear what people think. Eddie, what did you say about it?

You've probably noticed that Jason's language emphasizes the importance of mathematical thinking (as opposed to just getting it right). That's valuable. In situations when many teachers say things like, “I want to focus on the explanation. How you think about this is as important as whether you got it right,” what Jason does is different because *students don't know whether or not they are discussing a right answer*. He has asked them not to