used to be taken for granted; people were proud to do their part and raised their children to expect to as well, but no more. The refusal of some individuals to wear masks to help mitigate an epidemic, for example, underscores how hard it is to socialize such actions in our society. And yet schools are among the last institutions that ask for and depend on this increasingly unfamiliar behavior—where a greater common good (learning and knowledge for all) is achieved through small personal sacrifice (show, or perhaps even feign interest in what your classmates are saying even on days when you don't really feel like it).

At any given moment, the students in your classroom will be a mix of the stoic and the impulsive; the selfless and the selfish; the virtuous and the thoughtless; the wise and the silly.2 Hopefully more virtuous and wise than thoughtless and silly, but surely some of both. And in that mixture, the rights of those who dream of atoms and cell structure or insight into Grant's mindset as dawn broke over Vicksburg are fragile. They require protection. The more virtue and wisdom among the majority of your young people, the more imperative that you protect their right to learn in an optimal setting. And let me say a word here for the silly—of which I can say I was often one. Part of teaching is graciously and humanely preventing the puckishness of the child inclined to occasional silliness from becoming a bar to their own and others' learning. Short-sighted decisions by young people are to be expected. Everyone chooses hilarity over chemistry at some point. That such inclinations are natural and common does not mean that we should indiscriminately allow them, or that constraining them need be cruel or harsh—the opposite, in fact, and with skill such actions can feel like (and be) a form of caring. There is plenty of room for laughter at the right time.

The video *Emily Bisso: Write What I Write* tells a version of that story. Emily's class is taking notes. Except Joshua. He's