“Pulling a small group has never had a stigma. I think it has to do with how we frame it. We tell students, ‘This is a moment to get extra practice one-on-one or in a small group with your teacher.’ We never make this time feel negative in any way and students leave feeling successful, after getting the problem correct. We use stickers, high-fives, and smiles to commend them for showing effort through a tricky problem. In addition, the students who come up to the table are always different, based on the [most current] data. Sometimes it is students who are on the higher end, too. This helps to normalize the idea that everyone struggles and that this struggle is a part of the process that leads to mastery.”

By the way, a couple of other favorite *Teach Like a Champion* moments from this Nicole Willey clip: Nicole uses *Brighten the Lines* (*technique 28*), when she uses the prompt “Go!” after her directions to help ensure that students jump right into their work. She also uses *What to Do* (*technique 52*) beautifully to make sure one of her front-table scholars is listening to her feedback. The student looks like he wants to start going before he really hears what she’s saying, so she says, “Look at me” (twice!), in a warm, supportive tone backed by a smile.

Like Jasmine, Nicole has designed her classroom around the idea of *Checking for Understanding*.

# TECHNIQUE 13: SHOW CALL

Let’s return to what is perhaps the crucial moment in the clip from Denarius Frazier’s math class that we’ve been examining in the course of this chapter, *Denarius Frazier: Remainder*. Circulating and observing actively, Denarius recognizes that there’s something his students have