I say, “I’m almost done with *The Hunger Games*. It’s so violent but still pretty good.”

Then our friend Corinne joins in. “I just couldn’t get into *The Hunger Games*,” she says.

This series of comments does not quite qualify as a discussion—at least not in the fullest sense. Instead, it exemplifies what’s often missing when we call disconnected verbal interactions a “discussion.” Was my comment, “I’m almost done with *The Hunger Games*,” a response to your comment about *The Giver*, for example? Did I say that because they are both dystopian novels and I see some connection? Did I hear your point about it being psychologically jarring? Am I comparing that to the violence of *Hunger Games*? Am I just using the opportunity to talk about a book that I like instead of one that you like? Am I trying to talk about *The Giver* or changing the subject? If I’d said something like, “I hear you about *The Giver*. Someone told me *The Hunger Games* would be similar but it’s not as good to me. Maybe because it’s so violent,” I would be connecting my comment to yours and making it clear how they were related. And I would be making it clear that I had listened carefully to what you said.

Corinne’s comment was similar. When she said, “I couldn’t get into *The Hunger Games*,” was she changing the subject due to her inability to finish books? Excusing herself from the conversation on the grounds that she hadn’t read the book? Or was she saying she had stopped reading *The Hunger Games* because it was so violent? Was she following up on my comment? Did she hear it? A bit of framing—“Funny the violence didn’t bother me but I couldn’t get into *The Hunger Games*. It just wasn’t as well written as *The Giver*”—could have helped us to see those connections and knit our comments together. She was in