also important to model thoughtful, attentive listening. Not only does this reinforce the importance of student comments, but it helps you resist talking since much of what we say between comments is designed to show the sort of interest and approval we can often express without words. I personally prefer saying students' names rather than just pointing at speakers and it's also sometimes useful to add low-transaction-cost reminders of established discussion norms, such as, “Build on that, Henry.” It's still *Batch Processing* if you speak between student comments as long as what you say is merely to manage the process (i.e. choose who's next) as opposed to commenting on ideas. And of course it can still be beneficial for the teacher to comment on ideas offered during *Batch Processing*—you just have to wait a bit so students get to talk to each other first.

Another benefit of *Batch Processing* is that it meshes perfectly with our understanding of deliberate practice. Short iterations of spaced practice will build a skill more completely than larger but less frequent doses. Do something a little bit every day—for two minutes, say—and you'll get better at it than if you do it twice a month in a larger block—forty minutes, say. In one school we worked closely with, where students were especially adept at discussion, the key to transformation was the principal's request that all teachers take one minute during every lesson to practice the fundamentals of peer-to-peer discussion. That small amount of daily practice turned out to be more productive and easier to orchestrate than the more elaborate forms of discussions that required fifteen hypothetical minutes everyone was hoping would still be there at the end of a lesson.

History teacher Ryan Miller used this approach for student-to-student discussion at Williamsburg Collegiate Charter School in Brooklyn. In every lesson, Ryan asked what he