*Break It Down* is a powerful teaching tool, but it can be challenging to use because it is primarily a reactive strategy. It's useful immediately after an incorrect or insufficient answer.

How to respond effectively and efficiently in those situations is one of teaching's ongoing challenges. We know that repeating the question a little slower or louder isn't likely to help, but what do you do instead?

With *Break It Down*, the goal is to ask a question or present a piece of new information that will help the student answer correctly and will still cause the student to do as much of the thinking as possible. In the simplest terms, you want to provide the smallest viable hint, helping the student activate what he or she *does* know to get the correct answer.

In the video *Narlene Pacheco: Keystone*, you can see an example that shows both Narlene's skill and the challenges of the technique. Her kindergarteners are segmenting words—“bat” in this case—but one of her students has the letters out of order. She has b-t-a. “Segment bat for me,” Narlene says, carefully managing her tell (see technique 12, *Culture of Error*). When her young scholar does this correctly, she points at her paper: “What did you write?” It's an ideal *Break It Down* since Narlene hasn't provided any new information. She's just asked her student to review her work with heightened attentiveness. If her scholar was able to get it right now it would be based entirely on a self-correction. But she does not yet see her mistake.

“Read what you have,” Narlene now says, her second effort to *Break It Down*, but again it's not enough so Narlene goes a step further. “What's the first sound? Do you have that?” she asks. Her tone is impeccable: supportive, without a hint of frustration or judgment. “What's the second sound?” she continues. “Tuh” her student replies. She's narrowing her