Further, the culture Denarius has built—and which we can see him reinforcing in this clip—communicates the importance of studying mistakes and reinforces a strong sense of psychological safety for students as they do so. Ironically, students in classes like Denarius's often come to love *Show Call*. If they don't love it, they certainly see the value of it. In observing how Denarius approaches the technique we can learn a lot about why. It's also worth noticing that *Show Call*, used frequently, reinforces accountability for written work. On tomorrow's problem set, students will be strongly incented—perhaps even motivated—to do their best work. This will result in better and better examples to share with the class.

Notice Denarius's actions when he begins his *Show Call* and how much importance he assigns to the task of shared error analysis. He deliberately ensures full attention—notice his formal body language (technique 58, *Strong Voice*) and his use of a brief positive group correction, “Waiting on one” (see technique 55, *Least Invasive Intervention*), before commencing. He is communicating the heightened importance of the upcoming task.

As soon as he begins the process of studying a student mistake, he deliberately reinforces a few essential cultural messages. “As I walked around, on a few of our papers I'm noticing that we're getting an incorrect remainder,” he says. Immediately it's a “we” issue. He's going to show one example of what is a classwide challenge. Message: It's our work we're studying, not just that of a single *Show-Called* student. “We have check mechanisms in place that we can use to check this,” he says, again stressing the class’s group ownership of the problem and the solution.

Now to Fagan's work. “Snaps first to Fagan for using long division,” Denarius says. “You didn't have to use long division. You don't have to use synthetic. There's even