can manage to do with a minimal load on working memory allows you to use the remaining capacity for something more important. Fluent reading is perhaps the most important example of this. When students can read with fluency, their working memory is freed to think deeply about the text and their comprehension and ability to analyze increases.

This also explains why forming habits is so critical to learning. Making common, everyday activities familiar enough that we can do them without having to think about them makes it easier for us to do them—and therefore more likely that we will—and means we can free our minds up to think more deeply while doing them.

Your alarm goes off in the predawn darkness and your hand slaps the snooze button. You are in a half-waking state but soon standing at the sink, toothpaste on your brush; now the shower is running. Likely you are operating based on habit as your brain sleepily struggles to engage the new day. You do what you do because that's what you do. Your actions would happen more slowly and require more willpower and working memory (or might not happen at all) if they were not a habit. A familiar routine allows you to save your willpower for something else. Interestingly, research suggests that willpower is indeed finite in this way. Most of us can use it up. The term “ego depletion”10 describes this effect.

But something more happens as a result of habits. Likely some of the freest and widest ranging thoughts you will have today will occur while you are doing things you do out of habit: brushing your teeth; standing in the shower; perhaps driving to work. Your mind can do these things at very little cost to working memory; suddenly it is free to roam. Before you know it, you are thinking about where to put the couch so the living room makes sense or what the