Collectively Worked Example. It's a great way to end a class.

# Managing the Meta—The Case for Inside the Box

We tend to valorize “thinking outside the box.” The phrase evokes creativity, cognitive leaps, and the raw stuff of insight. In classroom discussion, however, keeping it *inside* the box—staying focused on a specific topic, maintaining steady, deep reflection on all sides of an idea—is often more valuable. Of course, the two aren't mutually exclusive, but there is a certain tension between them. Students sometimes reach for comments that are far afield rather than focused and topical because they believe that's how “outside the box” happens. We sometimes even encourage their doing so. Still, if we don't teach students how to keep insights on topic, we are guaranteed great leaps sideways, occasionally at the expense of forward progress. Let me give you an example.

I spent some time observing classes in a school near me, and one of the things that struck me was the way the discussions differed among classrooms. In some, students made relevant and insightful contributions. In others, comments were interesting to the student who made them, but not as useful or thought-provoking to others. They were arcane and solipsistic—smart, perhaps, but so self-absorbed that it was hard to say. The curious thing is that I was observing the same group of students in different rooms. I started to wonder, “Why were they so alert to their peers' perspective in one class and the opposite in another?”

In one classroom, the teacher asked, “What is fairness?” One student answered with an obscure quotation from a comic book that no one else had heard of. Another replied