ideas. You could easily stretch out this think time and make it more transparent

T: “We do need to break down the phrase ‘Rejecting the authority and wisdom of the governing body.’ What does *that* mean? Take ten seconds to think about what that phrase means before I let you talk to a partner about it. [Ten seconds elapses] OK. Share your thoughts with your partner. Go!”

Or

T: “We do need to break down the phrase ‘Rejecting the authority and wisdom of the governing body.’ What does *that* mean? Take fifteen seconds to jot down some ideas. What does that phrase mean? Then I’ll let you talk to a partner about it. [Fifteen seconds elapses] OK. Share your thoughts with your partner. Go!”

In these two examples, you would make the *Turn and Talk* even better by making sure the question was jotted on the whiteboard or student packet, and thus helping students to remember the question once the conversation actually begins.

Inserting a *Turn and Talk* when you’re stuck can also be a useful tool. Here you’re not so much planning a preliminary activity as spotting a place where the Think Ratio is high and some more active thinking would help. That’s what Alonte Johnson and Denarius Frazier are doing with their impromptu *Turn and Talks*. The moment when students are stuck is a great time to let them “think it out” in pairs.

## Priming

A final thought on building more rigor into *Turn and Talks*: In addition to a clear question, a time frame and a cue to begin, your *Turn and Talk* directions can also prompt