learned what the words meant just a few minutes ago, Christine is already trying to get them into long-term memory. And Christine will be sure to follow up the next day and/or a few days later—and again a few days after that—with more fun and engaging questions to retrieve and apply their knowledge of their vocabulary words. She also frequently includes previously mastered vocabulary words when she's retrieving new words. In this way they will have both depth and richness of understanding and long-term memory of the words.

It's not just that *more* of the original material remains in long-term memory that matters with *Retrieval Practice*. It's that the knowledge that is there is *easier for students to recall*. After three rounds of review, the neural pathways back to those discussions about juxtaposition in *Romeo and Juliet*, for example, are well worn. When students come upon an example of juxtaposition in some other text they are reading, the examples from Shakespeare will snap readily to mind. They will form connections. Easier retrieval leads to more than just knowing facts, in other words. Having various models of juxtaposition that come easily and naturally to mind becomes a schema—a connected body of knowledge that becomes familiar enough that people can use it quickly and easily to process information at minimal load to working memory as they interact with the world around them. Knowledge in that form—encoded in long-term memory and easily accessed—helps students perceive and understand more. This is one key reason why educational psychologists like Daniel Willingham remind us that knowledge easily accessed in long-term memory is the key to higher-order thinking.5 The best way to maximize the capacity of working memory for higher-order thinking, as I discussed in **Chapter One**, is to give it access to lots of ideas in long-term memory that it can draw upon.6