positive culture—not just avoiding a negative culture—is so critical in the classroom.

And fortunately everyone's reading is imperfect! So one critical step is to make this simple fact more evident. Balancing teacher read-alouds with student read-alouds is a great way to do this. If you read aloud you will surely make your share of stumbles and bobbles. I know I do. Not trying to hide them but instead making them seem normal is powerful. You could say “Whoops, let me start that sentence over,” or “Whoops, that's ‘flawed,’ not ‘flamed.’” Or you could say very little and just carry on as if it were the most normal thing in the world and let the data settle in on the class over time: Even the teacher stumbles. Having lots of students read also affords lots of opportunities for lots of students to stumble a bit, go back, reread, figure out a word—all of it public and in full view, even among the best readers. This normalizes an obvious aspect of reading that is otherwise hidden to students. The key is not to make weaker students feel like they should not stumble but to help them see that everyone does.

But of course some readers struggle more than others and it is precisely those students who struggle most who also benefit most from the practice. Planning, preparation, and culture building can address the challenges of this. Later I'll share with you a moment in Jessica Bracey's classroom where she demonstrates some excellent solutions. But first, this advice from Jo Facer: She writes that, initially, it is best to “select short, simple sentences before you teach your lesson, and underline or highlight these on your own copy. That way you will know the ‘safe sentences’ to get your struggling readers to succeed with.” Over time this will allow them to meet with success and build their confidence, she notes.