you don’t get it. All this for the uncertainty that the re-explanation will really help. It’s easier just to tell myself I’ll figure it out on my own. Such factors prevent most people, not just students, from speaking up when they are confused. When was the last time you stopped the room during a meeting to say, “Wait, I don’t get it”? If a colleague did this, what are the odds that you felt (or expressed) appreciation rather than exasperation? Students may occasionally say, “No, I don’t get it,” but not reliably so. There are too many implicit social pressures pushing them to keep their confusion to themselves.

A final factor that makes “Everybody get it?” questions ineffective is the format of the questions. They offer two bad choices. In most cases students’ understanding is somewhere in the middle; whether they get “it” is actually a series of questions in which the answer is yes to some and no to others. The answer to a yes/no “Do you get it?” question requires the conflation of a lot of data points; it causes students to choose one oversimplification or the other.

The good news is that when we ask questions like “Everybody get it?” we are recognizing that we are at a point when it would be beneficial to check for understanding. If we notice when we ask these sorts of questions, we can replace them with some more productive alternatives, what I call “targeted questions,” specific, objective questions focused on the content in question and asked in an open-ended format.

Imagine for a moment that our sixth-grade science teacher notices herself saying “Everybody get it?” during her introduction to plant and animal cell differences and tries to replace that question with something better. She might then say: