and Meghan to teach students habits that ultimately led to more independence. Over time, these procedures became automatic, or *routine*—students could, for the most part, execute them on their own. From that point, Sam and Meghan could afford to give their students autonomy because students knew how to manage it productively and because teachers could initiate it, adjust it, or correct it with a single word or gesture.

This is an idea that is not unique to the classroom. Classroom procedures and routines like Sam and Meghan's represent essentially the intentional internalization of shared classroom habits.

And habits, it is worth noting, have a profound influence on our lives. They become keystones. You develop a healthy positive habit in your life like reading or working out and it's more likely to result in your developing others. “Typically, people who exercise start eating better and becoming more productive at work. They smoke less and show more patience with colleagues and family. They use their credit cards less frequently and say they feel less stressed. Exercise is a keystone habit that triggers widespread change,” Charles Duhigg writes in *The Power of Habit*. This sort of behavior looks like self-discipline—well, it *is* self-discipline, but self-discipline made easy. Productive habits make it easy to be productive. And this is important for students because studies find that self-discipline predicts academic performance “more robustly than ... IQ,” Duhigg writes, and has a “bigger effect on academic performance than does intellectual talent.”

This chapter is the study of the way we develop shared positive habits in the classroom. That discussion can benefit from definitions of some key terms: