responsibility to students. Doing so gives students a greater sense of accomplishment, independence, and ownership over classroom structures.

Recently, we taped a lesson to watch Maggie Johnson's eighth-grade English class at Troy Preparatory Middle School and uncovered a hidden gem in the first few seconds of the video.

“Pencils down when you hear the beep,” she said, referring to the timer that's about to go off and signifies the end of independent work. “No countdown today.” In fact, there would be no countdown as part of Maggie's routine for the rest of the year, she later told them. Maggie was transitioning her kids from one highly effective system to another—replacing a teacher-narrated countdown with a simpler, faster, and more mature system wherein her students come to attention on their own at the beep. Maggie's countdown system was very effective, and sometimes it's the things that go well in our classes that we hold on to hardest—sometimes for a fraction too long, or that's the risk at least. In Maggie's case, despite the effective system already in place, she realized either that as eighth graders, her students were ready for a bit more autonomy and self-management, or that eliminating the countdown would be faster and less disruptive to the work they were doing, or both.

In short, what we were observing in Maggie's class was a transfer of ownership. In effect, Maggie was saying, “You've proven you can master this part of being scholars on your own, so now I give you more autonomy. You ‘own’ the rate at which you earn more freedom to self-manage.” This can be a powerful trade, especially when students understand that the autonomy is earned via mastery and follow-though.

## Other Notes on Transferring Ownership