you suddenly become able to assess and respond to students in situations where you weren't previously able to. Suddenly six minutes is enough. In some cases two or three minutes can be profoundly useful. If you maximize the efficiency of data gathering, you also increase the times and places when you can use it without redesigning your lessons. You become able to assess what happens during parts of your lesson that might otherwise go unmonitored. So while efficiency might seem at first like one of the least compelling words in teaching, it turns out to be critical to many of the most important things that differentiate great lessons from others.

*Standardize the Format* focuses on streamlining data-gathering and making your observation more efficient and accurate. It means designing materials and space so that you're looking predictably—in the same, consistent place every time—for the data you need. You might ask for work to be shown in the margin of a specific page of your students' books, for example, or for students to circle their final answer to a problem set. Or, at the beginning of class, you might give students a “packet” (see *technique 4*, *Double Plan*) in which to do key aspects of their work that day, and include clearly visible, preset places to write or take notes.

The following details from lesson packets in the Reading Reconsidered Curriculum my team and I developed offer some examples of ways carefully designed materials can organize the space where students work to make observation and assessment easier.