focus to a specific part of the work that's challenging. “What's the word?” Narlene now asks. “Buh-ah-tuh,” her student says and in so doing catches her error and fixes it. Narlene has helped her student solve while doing as much of the work as she can, and her students is happy: She’s figured it out rather than simply being told.

# Smallest Viable Hint

A teacher never really knows what knowledge a given student has, nor exactly how big the gap is between what the student knows and what he needs to know to succeed. Because the ideal is to cause a student to apply what he knows to the greatest degree possible, it’s useful to try to provide the smallest (successful) hint possible.

Providing a minimal hint gets at the tension in *Break It Down*. Whereas one goal is to break things down to the least degree possible, another is to do it quickly, thus managing time and pace. Meticulously adding a thin slice of knowledge to each previous hint would be the perfect means of causing students to do the greatest amount of cognitive work, but would derail instruction in a series of exercises that destroyed your pacing and led to rapid frustration on your students' part.

Sometimes, in the face of a wrong answer, you’ll have to move on to something else. So while your long-term goal is to maximize the cognitive work that students do, you’ll also have to balance those long-term goals with practical short-term realities. The good news is that the more you use *Break it Down*, the better (and faster) your students will get at their half of the equation.

# How *Break It Down* Works

When you ask a questions and the answer is not sufficient to be considered correct, your first goal is to get the