point where it has affected not only the level of attentiveness but the overall capacity for attentiveness of most people in profound ways. While a teacher's approach to attentiveness has always been a critical if unspoken part of a productive classroom, it is rapidly becoming more urgent. We aren't just struggling to help students learn to concentrate on what's important, we are struggling against a massive and pervasive technology that acts on our students—and ourselves—to erode that critical capacity in almost every minute of the day. Schools and teachers now must constantly design their choices and decisions with this challenge in mind if they hope to succeed. This is by far the single biggest change to emerge in education since the previous version of this book was published.

In his book *Deep Work*, Cal Newport examines the phenomenon of attention in the workplace, studying the conditions necessary to produce world-class knowledge work. Success in such a setting requires that you “hone your ability to master hard things,” he notes. A computer scientist by training, he uses writing code as an example. To be able to write complex, technical code is an outstanding thing to be good at, especially today, because knowledge work has never been more highly valued in society. Code moves freely and at light speed around the globe; if you write it well your audience of potential users is almost limitless. But this state of affairs—you in your happy place, writing code and sipping a latte while the world clamors for more and more of it—has a downside. Everyone else's code also moves freely and at light speed around the globe. Any line of it written anywhere in the world immediately competes with yours. All knowledge work is increasingly like this, Newport writes, and to succeed you not only must be able to concentrate to produce something uniquely intelligent, but “you must be able to do it quickly, again and again,” with “it” being the ability to achieve