There is a tendency among some educators to equate orderly classrooms with higher rates of suspension and other harsh disciplinary consequences, but in fact the opposite is the case. Norms are the most pervasive influence on the behaviors of individuals. Students are more likely to engage in more extreme behaviors in environments in which those behaviors appear plausible or even common, where things spiral quickly out of control, where there is little learning going on, where there is peer pressure to test limits, and where the culture does little to check this impulse. Sadly, when this is the case, students often feel tacit pressure to engage in behaviors they don't especially want to do and know are wrong. Every principal will tell you that some portion of suspensions are of young people who lack a positive and productive relationship to school, and some portion are of kids who like school and want to succeed there and nonetheless do something dangerous, stupid, or mean-spirited in a way that seems utterly out of character. A teacher who can use the tools in this chapter to establish a warm, caring, and humane learning environment that offers consistent limits is engaged in the work of preventing suspensions.

There is a final element to an orderly classroom that is also easily overlooked. “Self-discipline, self-regulation, hard work, [and] patience,” Tom Bennett writes in *Running the Room*, are all “enormously important characteristics of successful people in a variety of contexts… . Everything of value you can conceive of was acquired through sustained effort, practice, and delayed gratification.” An orderly classroom builds these habits—you want to speak but you discipline yourself to listen first; you are tired some days but complete your tasks regardless.

Productive and positive behavior, in other words, is part of an invisible curriculum in schools that reinforces executive functioning skills and allows students to thrive. Students