You can see her reviewing these answers with her students in the video. Notice her warm tone and brisk pace. Her constant encouragement—“OK, good”—and the way her *Cold Call* keeps the pace moving allows her to sample a cross-section of students. She also slows the pace of her speech a bit to imply a slightly more reflective tone when she transitions: “Good, so we get the picture of what’s happened. Now go back to this question: How does Stevenson sensationalize the murder?”

Had Gabby asked this question without first checking for understanding, students might have engaged in the analysis confused about basic facts. But her questions, planned in advance for precision and speed, allow her to ensure that they are ready for a deeper discussion. The pair review prior to her questions also has the effect of allowing students to encode the answers more strongly in memory. And her tone is warm and her pace brisk, so she accomplishes the whole thing in about a minute.

# TECHNIQUE 7: RETRIEVAL PRACTICE

Forgetting is a constant problem in almost any setting that involves learning—so familiar and pervasive that we almost overlook it. Hours after demonstrating their understanding of juxtaposition in *Romeo and Juliet* or how to find the area of an irregular polygon, students may remember only a fraction of that knowledge. In a few days, they may have forgotten the majority of it. This simple if frequently overlooked fact is one of the most important considerations in teaching: Once students have initially learned something, they quickly begin to forget it.

You have probably seen this play out in your own classroom. On Tuesday you are confident in your students' skill and knowledge. They’re solid on the what, why, and how. But when you assess them a week and a half later, it’s