craft or what exactly the experiment says about the role of ATP and they can't process the words and syntax at the speed of sight, you're likely to be disappointed. When you have to slow down to read, when the task of reading and making basic sense of the words requires conscious thinking, your working memory is allocated to figuring out the words, what they mean, and how they fit together, not to comprehending. Perhaps this is why the students who got fluency instruction—both those in regular classrooms and those who were struggling readers—“simply read better” than those who did not get regular work on fluency, writes Timothy Shanahan, who is among the nation's foremost researchers on reading. “For many students oral reading fluency practice continues to help in the consolidation of decoding skills [and] … helps to support prosody development which is more directly implicated in reading comprehension.”22

Reading aloud is critical to building fluency. It is the only reliable way to assess it and it provides students with the opportunity to practice the meaning making we express when we read aloud. To read something aloud is to interpret it and make arguments about it: In what tone should it be read? Which word gets emphasized? Think for a moment of how critical it is to know what the implicit voice of a text sounds like, not just for novels but for scientific research and historiography; now think of how often your students have heard those things read aloud. With FASE reading there’s constant modeling of how a text should sound but the model comes from fellow students. I will return to this when we discuss the social aspects of reading.

Reading aloud is the best way to practice fluency and it's beneficial for *all learners*, but once they have finished the elementary grades students no longer get opportunities to read aloud and build fluency. This gap is ten times more