oral reading and make the lesson more engaging. The momentum of quick, unpredictable, and relatively frequent changes of reader makes reading feel quick and energetic rather than tedious and slow.

Knowing that segments tend to be short and may end at any time also reinforces for secondary readers that they will likely soon get a chance themselves to read, and this keeps them from tuning out.

As students develop as readers, your definition of “short” will, of course, change. Maybe the average read is two or three sentences at first, but as students get better as readers and become more able to attend carefully, as they come to love reading and lose themselves more in the text, you will naturally extend the average length of a read. Sometimes you and the class will lose yourselves in a passage, and Vivian will just keep going. The key idea is that using shorter reads can bring engagement and energy to student oral reading—perhaps at the beginning of a passage, perhaps if things slow down, perhaps all the time. When and how often is up to you.

Finally, keeping durations short enables you to take better advantage of a crucial form of data: every time you switch readers, you gather data about your leverage. When you say, “Pick up please, Charles,” and Charles jumps in with the next sentence without missing a beat, you know that Charles was reading alongside the previous reader on his own. If not, you know otherwise. Ideally, you want this sort of seamless transition every time you switch readers, and frequent switching allows you to gather and manage transitions more often and more broadly. The more data you have, the more information and tools you will have to help you ensure leverage.

# Keep the Identity of the Next Reader Unpredictable