If you move quickly from one primary reader to another, students focus more closely on following along. This is doubly true if they don't know who the next reader will be. A teacher who announces that she'll go around the room in a predictable fashion gives away this part of her leverage. Students can tune out until their turn is near. Retaining your ability to choose the next reader also allows you to match students to passages more effectively. If you want to use Jo Facer's idea of preselecting sentences that developing readers can be more successful with, you'll need to be able to *Cold Call* readers and you'll need to select randomly.

Unpredictability makes for both better leverage and better reading, so when you call on students to read, it's great to call on some students who volunteer—the moment when they wave their hands in the air, desperate for their chance to read is a huge win for any teacher—just make sure not to call *exclusively* on volunteers. A significant proportion, most often a majority, of readers should include those who haven't raised their hands. This will maximize leverage and normalize full and universal participation. The message should be that reading is a pleasure and that a good teacher doesn't let just a few students hog all the fun.

## Reduce Transaction Costs

A *transaction cost* is the amount of resources it takes to execute an exchange, be it economic, verbal, or otherwise. When it comes to transitioning between readers, small differences in transaction costs can have a large effect, so it's critical to reduce them. A transition from one reader to the next that takes much more than a second steals reading time and risks interrupting the continuity of what students are reading, thus affecting how well students follow and comprehend the text.