# Planning for **Break It Down**

One of the best ways to succeed with *Break It Down* is to prepare for it: with *Plan for Error* and *Exemplar Planning* (see *Chapter Two*), even if you don’t predict the precise error students make, over time you’ll get better at anticipating the kinds of things that students get wrong and the responses that help. You do an exercise like this, in other words, as part of a long-term investment in your own understanding.

As you plan to *Break It Down*—or even when you use the technique without planning—there are benefits to building your “range,” the types of prompts you’re comfortable using. We all tend to be creatures of habit; over time, our hints become predictable. Using a variety of ways to offer hints to students can help you connect with more kinds of thinkers, as well as provide a wider and more flexible array of help.

## Provide an Example

If you got a blank stare when you asked for the definition of a prime number, you might say, “Seven is one” or “Seven is one, and so is eleven.” If you wanted to *Break It Down* further, you could cue: “Seven is one, but eight is not.” You could then potentially take it a step further by observing, “Eight’s factors include two and four.” You can also provide additional examples if the question stumping the student was originally based on a category. For example, a student in Jaimie Brillante’s fifth-grade writing class struggled to identify the part of speech of the word *owner*. Jaimie cued: “Well, *owner* would logically be the same part of speech as other words that end in -er. *Dancer*, *swimmer*, *singer*. What are those?” she asked. “They’re people,” the student replied. Jaimie prompted, “And people have to be ...,” as the student chimed in, “Nouns!”