without being too structured or leading (or asking for more writing than is needed). It also models for students how to take organized notes.

In addition to enabling you to find answers (or key steps in the work process) more quickly, *Standardize the Format* allows you to disrupt students less. You won’t spend time flipping through their work or asking them to help you find answers and this will allow them to concentrate. Most important, though, instead of expending energy (and using your own working memory) locating answers, you can identify and assess trends among your students’ work and spot examples to share with the class. Simplifying search tasks reduces extraneous cognitive load; the more consistent the appearance and placement of the data, the more you will be able to focus on what it’s telling you. You perceive more accurately, remember more of what you see, and think more productively about it.

There are some surprising relational benefits to all this *“efficiency”* and *“productivity”* and you can see an example of them in the video *Nicole Warren: Keystone*. As she circulates and observes during the last few minutes of the clip you may notice the beautiful connections she makes with students. There are sincere encouragements and acknowledgments. These little moments of relationship building are surely something most of us seek, so it’s important to observe that they stem in part from the ease with which she can find what she is looking for in each student’s work. The easiness leaves her relaxed and confident. With her working memory only lightly taxed by search costs, her mind is free to think about each student in turn as she works the room, and all her warmth and graciousness can show.

There are other ways you can continue to prioritize your focus on the content of student work by *Standardizing the*