It's a tiny but important movement and it's the simplicity of the responses and Denarius's lack of fuss that makes it successful. Sarah Ott's approach is similar and different. When students are slow in wrapping up and responding to her, she's playful and upbeat and energetic rather than steady, but she still gets her *Do It Again* done fast. It's a technique that usually gets more out of less.

# Notes

1. Tom Bennett, *Running the Room*, p. 104.

2. James Clear, *Atomic Habits*, p. 93.

3. *Ibid*, p. 117.

4. For U.S. readers: in England calling students “smart” means they look sharp and ready to go.

5. Hammond discusses attention in *Culturally Responsive Teaching and the Brain*. Learning, she goes on to say, “requires focused attention. active engagement and conscious processing by the learner” (p. 48).

6. [www.researchgate.net/publication/225304965_The_role_of_selective_attention_on_academic_foundations_A_cognitive_neuroscience:perspective](www.researchgate.net/publication/225304965_The_role_of_selective_attention_on_academic_foundations_A_cognitive_neuroscience:perspective)

7. It's not a coincidence that tech engineers use the phrase “eyeballs” to describe the level of attention commanded by their software. Eyeballs are the currency of the gig economy, though of course the purpose of software is the opposite of a teacher's—it seeks to win attention through distraction. Teachers seek to build the ability to sustain and focus concentration. Is it necessary to point out that the winner of this battle—whether young people flick reactively from one push notification to the next or can sustain focus on what's most important