If you designate a student to read in class and say, “Read the next paragraph for me, Vivian,” everyone in the class knows no one else will be asked to read until Vivian finishes the paragraph. *Stating the duration for which a student will read causes other students to follow along a little less.* Instead, when you ask a student to read, don't specify how long you want her to read for. Saying, “Start reading for me please, Vivian” or “Pick up, please, Vivian” makes other students more likely to read along, since they don't know when a new reader will be asked to pick up.

In addition, keeping durations unpredictable allows you to address a struggling reader in a safe and noninvasive manner. If Vivian struggles with the paragraph you've assigned her, it means either a long, slow slog to the end, possibly exhausting for Vivian and reducing leverage with other students, or it's you suddenly cutting her short of what you promised: “OK, I'm going to stop you there, Vivian. Jelani, would you please read some?,” which carries an implicit judgment. If you don't specify the length of the read initially, however, you can adapt in the interest of both the student who's reading and the rest of the class. Vivian can read two sentences really well and then stop before she struggles too much, making the experience positive, then you can move to a dynamic reader who will push the story along for the rest of the class. Or, if Vivian is doing well, you can let her keep going. All of this happens invisibly when you avoid telling students how long they'll read.

## Keep Durations Short

Reading short segments can often allow students to invest energy in expressive reading and sustain the energy required for fluent, even dramatic reading. It's better to read really well for three or four sentences and stop than to read well for two and drone through six more. Moving quickly among primary readers can yield higher-quality