understand the concept. It's one of the most impressive takes on differentiation through *Check for Understanding* I've had the pleasure of watching.

Not only that, but Jasmine's forming a group for reteaching in “real-time” *Checking for Understanding* reminded me of another clip of Nicole Warren doing something similar. You can see this in the clip *Nicole Warren: Front Table* in her third-grade classroom at Leadership Prep Ocean Hill. Nicole calls students up to the front table for extra practice after the previous day's *Exit Ticket* revealed that they continued to struggle with story problems.

In part, she told me, she wanted to pull them up front to watch them solve the problem “so I could stop them in the moment, if necessary, and be sure they were using the strategy we had discussed the day before. Since we already spent time debriefing this problem, I wanted to be sure they were practicing correctly to solidify the skill.”

In other words, Nicole observes all students carefully, but she also structured her classroom so she can occasionally observe students she's worried about even more carefully. Everyone gets real-time feedback; but this allows her to give a double dose to those who need it most. And you'll notice that they get a ton of feedback —positive in tone but rigorous—and they get the implicit feedback of knowing—when they are sent back to their seats—that they've mastered, at least for the moment, the skill that Nicole had targeted.

One of the most important things Nicole does to make her front table system work is to think about how to leverage her *Culture of Error*—there has to be no judgment, no stigma, no snickering about working at the front table. Nicole's messaging sets that up.