her and work so hard throughout each lesson is her skill as a teacher. Every day they enter a place that’s orderly and productive and see themselves learning and accomplishing things. They feel capable and accomplished and, naturally, like that feeling. Peps Mccrea calls this “scholarly identity” and it often comes from the outside in. They see themselves doing well at English and conclude they must like and value English.

But motivation is shaped most of all by norms. That’s the hidden secret. It’s the most important factor and it’s mostly invisible to us. People are evolved to be supremely social—think here of the “cooperative eye” hypothesis—and will be inclined to do what the group is doing even without realizing it. “Norms are so powerful they override more formal school policies or rules. However, their largely invisible and unconscious nature makes them easy to underestimate if not totally ignore,” writes Mccrea. Norms will emerge, in any setting where there are people, and they will shape behavior. It is merely a question of whether they are deliberate or accidental norms. In many schools it is the latter.

The strength of a norm’s influence over us, however, also depends on how much we feel a part of and identify with those exhibiting the norms. Motivation is mediated by belonging.

What I focus on in this chapter is how to make students feel belonging, trust, and motivation, so that teachers find a receptive audience for learning. Put another way, this chapter describes rules of thumb for the daily interactions with students in which motivation and trust are built.

# TECHNIQUE 59: POSITIVE FRAMING