You can see some unexpected benefits of retrieval practice in the video Lauren Moyle: *Cranium*. Lauren here is asking her first-grade students to retrieve into active memory key details about the body. The brain is an *essential* organ that controls our decision making. It is encased in a bone called the cranium. The heart is a *pump* that distributes blood to the body like an engine. You can see them recalling the pieces of this content in different ways: What's it called, Why is it called that, What does it do? Every child is engaged with the task.

Interestingly this video is about ten years old and only recently did I come to understand it! We used to show it at workshops, inspired by Lauren's dynamic teaching—the questioning that fostered eager hands supported by the use of *Cold Call* and with *No Opt Out*, to ensure accountability and engagement. We were focused on *how* Lauren taught and didn't spend much time thinking about the value of *what* she was doing. In fact, ironically, when *what* she was teaching came up in discussions at workshops, I often found myself apologizing for it. Participants would occasionally note that she was *just recalling facts*, the phrase implying there wasn't much substantive teaching going on. Eventually we stopped showing the video altogether.

Now I can see much more clearly that *what* Lauren is doing is at least as valuable as *how* she's doing it. Future discussions in her class will be richer and based on firm knowledge because of *what* she does here. The other unexpected thing the video shows is how much students tend to like *Retrieval Practice*. Lauren's students are eager, happy, and confident. Teachers sometimes presume that facts are boring for students and so focusing on retrieval practice will make their classes dull, but the opposite is often the case. Students who know their material are proud to know it and eager to use it. And as they begin they see