Can you subtly move to a spot near another student as you explain the homework, and therefore provide just enough gentle accountability to keep him on task and writing down the assignment?

Only, perhaps, if you can work the room simply and easily—if you can get anywhere in your room at any time without navigating a pile of backpacks or asking for the pushing in of chairs. In fact, if you have to ask for permission to get to any spot in the classroom or if it seems unnatural for you to stand anywhere, it’s not really your room and, more importantly, you may not be able to shape it optimally to support student learning.

*Circulate* describes rules and habits for a teacher's strategic and intentional movement around the room during all parts of a lesson.

## Step 1: Break the Plane

The “plane” of your classroom is the imaginary line that runs the length of the room, parallel to and about five feet in front of the board, usually about where the first student desks start.

Some teachers are slow or perhaps hesitant to “break the plane”—to move past this imaginary barrier and out among the desks and rows. They might spend the entire lesson moving back and forth from one front corner to the other. Or just leaning on their desk in front of the board. But breaking the plane adds energy to your teaching and allows you to observe what students are doing. You can linger beside a student's desk and subtly raise your eyebrows as you ask an intriguing question or place a warm and gentle hand on his shoulder as you progress around the room.

It’s important to break the plane early—within the first few minutes of the lesson, if possible. (One benefit of technique