examples of what they know in more and more places, their confidence grows, often transferring to more complicated tasks in which they are asked to put those facts to use.

I'll close the discussion of *Retrieval Practice* by sharing a video, *Retrieval Practice Montage*, of several teachers employing the concept in different ways. Art Worrell's AP U.S. History students stand to answer his retrieval questions. It's a regular and intentional part of the day and the importance of *Retrieval Practice* is transparent to students. This helps them to understand how important it is for them to use in their own studying! Art again undercuts the idea that *Retrieval Practice* questions have to be simple. He asks Tarik what the compromise of 1877 was, but also why it was important. He then asks Kamari to expand on Tarik's answer. As Kamari's answer shows, it's broad knowledge, not just narrow facts, that they're recalling.

Annette Riffle uses *Retrieval Practice* in her middle school math classroom to make ideal use of what might otherwise be down time—one student is at the board modeling a problem and, rather than allowing everyone else to sit passively, she peppers them with key questions about coordinate geometry.

Barry Smith's use of *Retrieval Practice* in his French class shows two things: first, a variety of ways to engage—*Cold Call*, *Call and Response*, hands raised—and also that the content goes in two directions. Barry asks his students to go both from French to English and English to French. Teachers of other content areas might think about naming a concept and asking students to describe it and then flipping the process: describing a concept and asking students to name it, asking, for example, “What is hyperbole?”; “What is it called when authors intentionally exaggerate to make a point?”; and perhaps even “If I say