“Ms. Austin said she didn't think you guys could knock out your math tables faster than her class. Let's show 'em what we've got.”

## Talk Expectations and Aspirations

When you ask students to do something differently or better, you are helping them become the people they wish to be or to achieve enough to have their choice of dreams. You can use the moments where you ask for better work to remind them of this. When you ask your students to revise their thesis paragraphs, tell them you want them to write as though “you're in college already” or that “with one more draft, you'll be on your way to college.” If your students are fourth graders, ask them to try to look as sharp as the fifth graders. Or tell them you want to do one more draft of their work and have them “really use the words of a scientist [or historian, and so on] this time around.” Tell them you want them to listen to each other like Supreme Court Justices. Although it's nice that you're proud of them (and it's certainly wonderful to tell them that), the goal in the end is not for them to please you but for them to leave you behind on a long journey toward a more distant and more important goal. It's useful if your framing connects them to that goal.

## TECHNIQUE 60: PRECISE PRAISE

Whereas *Positive Framing* focuses on how you make constructive or critical feedback feel motivating, caring, and purposeful to the recipient, *Precise Praise* is about managing positive feedback to maximize its focus, benefit, and credibility. Although it might seem like the simplest thing in the world, positive reinforcement helps students more if it's intentional, and you must constantly defend against the potential for it to become empty or