- As soon as you learn something, you begin forgetting it almost immediately.
- The rate of forgetting is often shockingly high; a few hours after learning something, people routinely remember only a small fraction of it.
- Each time you practice recalling what you know, the rate and amount of forgetting is reduced somewhat.
- Retrieving something back into working memory slows the rate of forgetting, but how and when the retrieval happens is important. (I discuss the details of retrieval more in *technique 7*, *Retrieval Practice*.)

That's immensely useful information, but forgetting curves can't tell us everything. They cannot tell you exactly what the rate of retention will be for your students generally or for a specific student at time A or time B for a specific topic you've taught. There are individual differences and factors in the learning environment, like how much attention students are paying and how new to students the information was, so the curve in most cases is theoretical but the theme is clear: We forget quickly and decisively as soon as we stop thinking about something and this process is always at work. Left unabated its effects are massive.

One way this is especially relevant is that what students appear to be able to remember at the end of a lesson does not represent what they really know, because the knowledge is not yet in long-term memory and forgetting begins when teaching stops. Students will begin to forget the moment they walk away from the class. Yes, use **Exit Tickets** to assess at the end of class. But know also that, barring further review, this technique will give you a false signal.² You will assume your students know how to add fractions with unlike denominators, but the test given the next week or at the end of the year will measure original