your lesson if you're thinking about brushing your teeth. But there are also habits you develop to help you think more deeply about what you're doing, like your process for lesson preparation. “I always prepare my lessons the same way,” Sarah Wright told me. The morning of the beautiful lesson in her Keystone video, in which she is so compellingly responsive to her students and seems to make every decision right, she “did the lesson as if I was a student, thinking it through from their perspective and writing out the answers I hoped I'd get.” Teachers like Sarah use a familiar and productive habit to prepare. That it's a routine means that she isn't thinking about how to get ready, but rather about what a good student answer looks like.

It's the same for students. We want to optimize their use of their thinking by filling their school days with two kinds of habits:

1. having a way of doing relatively unimportant things quickly and easily
2. having a way of doing important things well and in a way that channels the greatest amount of attention, awareness and reflection on the content.

It's obvious that we want consistent habits for the trivial stuff, in other words, but it's less obvious that we want consistent habits for the most important tasks. True, there are useful habits like how to come into a classroom and how to pass out materials. But academic habits—how to hold a discussion and how to write in response to text—are even more critical. What we do frequently benefits most from being done consistently, so building habits around paying attention well (*Habits of Attention*) and listening and building community during discussions (*Habits of Discussion*) pay massive dividends, as do consistent routines for different ways of participating (*Turn and Talk*, *Silent Solo*), not to mention expectations like putting hands up to answer (there's nothing worse than interrupting a student who makes a good comment to ask the student who