what kind or how many of something?” Narlene also did this with her young scholar when she helped her to establish that her first sound had been segmented correctly.

# Fighting Rigor Collapse

Rigor collapse refers to what happens when you ask a hard question that students can't answer and progressively *Break It Down* until the big question is a question that now lacks the rigor of the original.

Scaling down the question gradually and cautiously so that students do as much of the cognitive work as possible is generally a good thing, but how do you achieve that without having a class consisting of simple, or even simplistic, questions?

In a lesson my team and I recently observed, a class was reading *The Outsiders*, and the teacher had asked students about the following exchange between Cherry, a “Soc” (that is, someone in a higher socioeconomic class) and Ponyboy, a “Greaser” (of a lower socioeconomic class):

> “You read a lot, don't you, Ponyboy?” Cherry asked.

> I was startled. “Yeah. Why?”

> She kind of shrugged. “I could just tell. I’ll bet you watch sunsets, too. I used to watch sunsets, before I got so busy. I miss it.”

The teacher asked what Cherry meant by “before I got so busy.” Cherry was the sort of person who was likely “busy” doing things like schoolwork and activities, the sorts of things on her side of the class divide, whereas Ponyboy was not. They could have been kindred spirits—watchers of sunsets—but class and caste expectations (at least partly) put them in different places.