3. *Faux errors.* Other times, a teacher will ask students to deliberately make a common error to role-play how to respond. “What do you do if you go to the left if everyone is going to the right? Let's try it and work it out.”

    With older students, the practice is much more compelling if it's embedded in real content, even relatively simple orientation content. The video *Mallory Grossman: Quick Poll* is a great example. Mallory contrives a way for students to practice their new routines three times over the course of the first lesson. My colleagues on the *TLAC* team and I have also come to believe in something else Mallory is doing here—embedding practice of procedures in content for students above the primary level. This allows the students to feel the benefits of the routines and makes practice more natural.

    A common mistake is to stop practicing once a routine appears stable. Routines require periodic maintenance to make sure they stay in ideal running order. Occasional feedback or a *Do It Again*—“Whoops, we were a little slow getting started with our *Stop and Jot* or our *Turn and Talk* there. Let's practice that again”—is important. And remember the *Forgetting Curve*: to learn something students have to begin to forget and then come back to something—usually multiple times. And a strong routine in October does not guarantee a strong routine in December. A little refresher, even before it is becomes necessary, is always smart, doubly so because you can practice without implying anything is wrong: “Let's be super attentive to our *Habits of Discussion* or *Habits of Attention* today.”

    Once students are able to complete a procedure in the right way, strive to transfer ownership, passing some of the