students the opportunity to practice the skills of discussion means supporting them as they develop this meta-awareness.

Unfortunately, in many classrooms, the moment when someone finishes a thought means it's open season; there's no expectation that the next comment will stick with the same topic and the result is conversations that have a fractured and scattered feel. In fact, students will often say, “What I was going to talk about was …” which implies that they are changing the topic (and that the previous comment was relatively unremarkable). Do this enough and you prevent the substance and depth that come from wrestling with the nuances of a specific issue. And it suggests to previous speakers that their comments weren't worth making. Why keep contributing if you say something you've been thinking about and it's ignored by the next speaker as if it never happened? It's easily overlooked, in other words, that one of the most important characteristics of a good discussion is topicality.

Ryan Miller used a similar move in a recent lesson. Students were examining primary source documents about President Teddy Roosevelt's intervention in Panama. One student commented that Roosevelt's claims that the United States was not involved were an effort to hide the government's intentions. The subsequent student made a sudden change of topic, almost as if the previous point had never been made, so Ryan stepped in: “That's interesting, but I'd like to hear someone respond to Sara's comment before we move on to another one.”

Ryan’s and Rue's goal in these interventions was to have students internalize a mental model of discussion that includes self-discipline and a recognition of the need to read one's audience among participants. In a good