During my fourth week of teaching global studies, I confronted my first behavior problem. In my class of 25, I have 6 students who, on any given day, could all be called to the office or even suspended. Five of the six are failing. On this day, by some chance, all six were present.

The disruptions started as soon as the bell rang. Rarely are the offenses major, just a constant stream of minor interruptions: Sean out of his seat every 2 minutes, Jacinta asking what grade she got on her last test, Karen’s constant chatter, and CJ playing the drums with his pencil. In addition, on this day the other students were having trouble understanding the lesson and were getting restless as much from the distractions as the material itself.

My own attention was on my lecture, but as my frustration level rose, I began making mistakes and had difficulty explaining the concepts. I found myself raising my voice and pleading with them to sit down, quiet down, and pay attention. In short, I had lost control of the class.

I responded by yelling and singling out Paul, who happened to be the ringleader at the time. I informed him, along with the rest of the class, that he was failing because he hadn’t been paying attention and that I was assigning him an afterschool detention to discuss his behavior and missing assignments. Paul responded by informing me that he wasn’t going to come and that I couldn’t make him do anything. Annoyed and angry, I stupidly persisted with this confrontation. All the while, the other students were hooting and hollering and egging on the circus until, after about 3 minutes, I was literally saved by the bell. All I had accomplished in the entire 42 minutes was to make a fool of myself.

Looking back, I see that I had been under the impression that it was my fault the students were acting out. My job is to teach the lesson and concentrate on the class instead of the disrupters. So I need to work on strategies to advance the lesson and avoid taking their misbehaviors personally and letting them get the best of me.

Instead of singling out Paul, Jenny needed to address the situation, not the shortcomings of the student(s). For example, she could have said to the class, “I get frustrated when the class is so noisy,” perhaps even adding, “Let’s take a few deep breaths, and then I’ll continue.”