immediately produce the draft of such a letter, and they quickly back down. I follow this strategy with Divide and Conquer.

I tried other strategies first, namely, the usual nonverbal strategies of moving closer to them, tapping on their desks, or staring directly at them while shaking my head, but those strategies have failed to work. The consequence of a letter home, however, holds them at bay. They have learned that I mean what I say.

*Teachers need a systematic management plan ranging from subtle to progressively more direct and intrusive interventions.* Dora relied on such a plan beginning with nonverbal strategies and culminating in giving the boys the choice between complying and facing the consequence. But her strategies were strictly reactive. A **reactive management strategy** is designed to stop or punish a threat to or actual breach of order. On the other hand, a **proactive management strategy** is designed to prevent the threat or breach altogether. *Proactive management strategies are better than reactive management strategies.* Novice teachers, so consumed with the immediacy of their disciplinary challenges, are likely, however, to overlook proactive strategies and concentrate exclusively on reactive strategies.

An example of a proactive strategy for Dora would be her conferring with the boys so they understood the problem from her perspective and she understood it from theirs. *A teacher needs to make sure that students understand the problem from the teacher’s perspective and that he or she understands it from theirs.* Then she could have asked them how she could help to make the lessons more meaningful for them. *Teachers are more likely to be successful with students who see the teacher as on their side.*

Nevertheless, she ultimately would need them to take responsibility for their behavior and make a commitment to change. While offering them support, she would still need to warn them of the consequence if they didn’t improve, such as her forbidding them to participate in an activity.

Another example of a proactive strategy for Dora would be her planning more small-group activities, in which the four would be separated from each other, and fewer whole-class activities, such as lectures, demonstrations, and **recitations**. *Whenever you have some students monopolizing the class’s time, you need to decentralize instruction.*