and I was somewhat satisfied. Still, I wonder how I should have handled the problem in the first place.

Lorraine learned two lessons from her assistant principal. First, *never impose group punishment*. It punishes the innocent while demonstrating your own inability to deal with a problem justly.

Second, writing up a student, presumably for an administrative intervention such as a detention, should be the last resort. In other words, *an administrative intervention should be reserved for an emergency*, such as for violence or the threat of violence, or after a teacher’s own repeated but unsuccessful attempts to solve a problem (see Chapter 29 for other examples of occasions for an administrative intervention). After thinking it over, Lorraine rescinded her decision to write them up. Like Lorraine, *don’t be afraid to admit your mistakes*.

Despite these lessons, Lorraine still didn’t learn how to handle instances of students bullying Candy or throwing spit-balls. How would you advise her?

How could you reduce the likelihood of bullying in your own classroom?

## Note: Bullying Triangle

Sullivan, Cleary, and Sullivan (2004) introduce the concept of the bullying triangle consisting of the bully, the victim, and bystanders. Bystanders contribute to the abuse by supporting the bully. To change the dynamic, bystanders need to be taught to support the victim instead.

- Sullivan, K., Cleary, M., & Sullivan, G. (2004). *Bullying in secondary schools: What it looks like and how to manage it*. London: Chapman.

