objective. Then he had them build and share their understandings in small groups, assess their understandings in response to thought-provoking questions, and finally attend to the lesson’s closure. The advantages of such a segmented lesson are that teachers can (a) identify errors in their timing estimates and make adjustments during subsequent segments, (b) renew student interest and integrate latecomers with each new segment, and (c) gauge the usefulness of an activity for student learning and then, if necessary, modify the rest of the lesson.

Perhaps Henry’s most important segment was his do-now. The do-now is a daily routine consisting of an activity each student is expected to work on independently for the first few minutes upon entering the classroom. The purpose of the donow is to get, without supervision and even before the bell rings, every student ready to work. Accordingly, the do-now must be an activity that requires students to sit down and take out their notebook, perhaps their textbook, and a pencil or pen. The teacher takes attendance and otherwise prepares to launch the lesson during the do-now.

In addition to the do-now, Henry regularly uses other instructional segments, such as group work followed by an assessment activity, to structure his lessons. The regularity of this framework reduces Henry’s need to repeat everyday directions and keeps the students aware of his expectations as each lesson unfolds.

How do you structure your lessons? A regularity in structure in no way diminishes your opportunity to keep the content of each lesson fresh. The only caveat? Make the connection between instructional segments explicit to your students.

## Ira’s Story

During one of my first double-period classes in the high school, I prepared about 80 minutes of lecture, interspersed with questions and small-group writing projects. I spent hours preparing my talk on fiction in film and included pictures, anecdotes, and artifacts from my memorabilia collection. I was able to keep most of the students engrossed by mixing entertainment with some important facts.

The two 80-minute lectures, almost back-to-back, left me emotionally and physically drained, however, so much so that when I