Recognizing her responsibility to provide a **socially and psychologically safe learning environment**, Vera intervened swiftly to rebuke the group, briefly identifying both the offense and the punishment for a repeat violation. *A penetrating comment may be necessary to remind students when they are not living up to expectations or their responsibilities.* However, she rebuked them in private. *A private conversation preserves the student’s or students’ dignity, thereby forestalling a defensive or hostile response.*

Yet Vera wondered whether she had been too harsh. On the contrary, her rebuke, though necessary, was insufficient. She also needed to teach the students why their behavior was unacceptable and how they could make amends. After class, she needed to explain to them first the difference between feelings and behavior, that, yes, they have feelings but not the right to act on them. For example, she could have said, “I know you don’t want him in your group, but you may not exclude him. He has as much right to participate in the group as you do.”

Vera also needed to explain how their behavior was a violation of the Golden Rule. And finally, she needed to express her confidence in their abilities to control their behavior and her hope that they would apologize to Holden. In short, warning them of a punishment was necessary, but she also needed to work with them to improve their attitude toward Holden. A *“working with” rather than a “doing to” approach promotes student maturity.*

## Ollie’s Story

One event that particularly bothers me is when one student taunts another. On a few occasions, I have noticed such taunts directed at a certain Asian boy who has difficulty speaking English. I had held back from addressing these insults but regretted my inaction and began to watch for an opportunity to step in. A week or so later, a different boy taunted someone, this time about being a homosexual.

I started to lay into this boy really hard, raising my voice and carrying on for about half a minute. Then I suddenly noticed the other students staring at me in astonishment. I suppose they never thought I