- A “working with” rather than a “doing to” approach promotes student maturity.
- Using threats (or bribes) to control student behavior undermines any potential for a mutually respectful relationship.

And third, James Levin and James F. Nolan (2007), in *Principles of Classroom Management: A Professional Decision-Making Model*, advocate using the least intrusive management strategy so students can learn to control their own behavior. Some of the practical principles that derive from their work include these listed below:

- Teachers need a systematic management plan ranging from subtle to progressively more direct and intrusive interventions.
- Rather than impose control, it is better to foster students’ self-control.
- A private conversation preserves the student’s or students’ dignity, thereby forestalling a defensive or hostile response.

Thus the strategies and practical principles in this book are grounded in the experiences, research, and perspectives of notable scholars in teacher education.

## How to Read This Book

You can read this book in one of two ways: by either selecting a chapter for a particular problem or reading the book sequentially. Every chapter can stand alone. Each technical term (or grammatical variant of that term) is printed in a bold font the first time it is used in each chapter and then defined in the glossary. Moreover, the glossary includes an index so readers can locate that term in other chapters (see Glossary and Index of Technical Terms). Likewise, every practical principle is italicized in each chapter and listed in both the Alphabetical Index of Practical Principles and the Topical Index of Practical Principles. Thus, by selecting a particular chapter, readers can get immediate help for a classroom management problem and, with a little more exploration, elaborate their understanding of a technical term or practical principle.

Each chapter also includes at least one supplementary note about and set of references for a concept related to one or more of the stories. Some