discuss my origins with the class that day, but now I had to. I told them I wasn’t born in America, related some of my English-learning experiences, and explained the importance of accepting people from other cultures.

I learned that children can sense a teacher’s insecurities and that I had to accept and be open about who I am. I also realized that many seventh graders do not understand the experience of being an immigrant in America.

Victoria turned an event that was uncomfortable for her into a learning experience for her students. Like Victoria, you too should *resist the tendency to take your students’ **misbehaviors** personally.* Instead of scolding the girls for their rudeness, Victoria spoke candidly about herself. *Honest communication is fundamental to your relationships with your students.*

Teachers can, however, also teach their students to express themselves thoughtfully. They can, in private, give their students specific and immediate feedback on their behavior. *Students need specific and immediate feedback to recognize their behavior.* For example, Victoria could have said to the girls, “I heard you laughing as we were going over the questions. I knew you were laughing at me, and I felt embarrassed.”

Next, Victoria would need to help them see how their behavior affected not only her but the other students. Last, she could help them develop alternative ways of expressing their confusion. For example, she could coach them (and perhaps all her students) to signal when they can’t understand her so she could write the words on the board.

## Gina’s Story

The event occurred during the first few weeks of school. I overheard a student harshly criticizing my teaching. The course is challenging for most of these students, and I can understand his frustration and why he wanted to lash out at me.

I didn’t respond in anger. Instead, I simply asked to speak with him at a convenient time. When we met, I said, “I can understand that this class can frustrate you, and like you, I am learning as I go along. I make