Guadalupe issued Lloyd a succinct, albeit public reminder to use two hands. It was hardly an order. Given the threat to classroom safety, her immediate and direct intervention was appropriate, even necessary. She should not, however, have issued him a detention for muttering. On the contrary, a teacher should ignore behaviors that hardly interfere with teaching or learning. Besides, punishment does not deter misbehavior; it fosters resentment, not cooperation. And his defiance was waning anyway.

If Guadalupe had been determined to issue him a detention, then she should have taken the time to do it privately. Moreover, she should have explained why. She could have said, “I see we’re not in sync right now. Come in at lunchtime and let’s see if we can work it out.” With only a broadcasted order for him to report to detention, he predictably rebelled.

Guadalupe was dissatisfied with the outcome. She knew she had lost ground in her relationship with Lloyd. Her approach had been to “do to” rather than “work with” him. Inasmuch as Lloyd’s problems in school had become chronic, the most promising strategy for working with him would have been to foster a trusting rather than authoritarian relationship with him. The development of a trusting relationship with a caring adult is the most effective strategy for treating a student with a chronic school problem. Such a relationship, however, can take considerable time to foster, not necessarily a realistic expectation for a novice teacher. Nevertheless, what first step should Guadalupe have taken to avoid a power struggle with Lloyd?

