For every minute you divert your students from the course of your lesson, you will lose several times that amount trying to reengage them. 12, 17

Give a class clown attention but for only appropriate behavior. 15

Good discipline is achieved only through repeated kindnesses. 14, 19, 26

Hands-on is not enough; the task also has to be brains-on. 4, 9

Have handy, for both you and your students, extra supplies and equipment. 12

Having students work in pairs (with teacher support) is particularly useful for low achievers, who can then teach each other without the fear of making a mistake publicly. 1

Honest communication is fundamental to your relationships with your students. 12, 19

Humor defuses tension and promotes a positive relationship with students but only when directed at the teacher or a situation, never at a student. 3

If students have made a commitment to a rule, especially one they had a share in creating, they are likely to correct their misbehavior with simply a reminder of the rule. 15, 17, 26, 27

If students must hold a piece of equipment so you can instruct them in its use, then distribute just that piece of equipment. 9

If used consistently, a routine minimizes the time and energy needed to direct a regular classroom event. 2, 6, 9, 10, 11, C

Ignore behaviors that hardly interfere with teaching or learning. 14, 25, 27

Instead of criticizing the actions of their students, teachers can safely express their anger by referring to their own feelings. 22, 23, 25, 27

Issuing an order promotes defiance, not cooperation. 14, 25