volunteer correct information, and was a great example for the rest of the class.

I think Chris just needed to know that I cared, that I understood his fear, and that I believed in him. I have found that many disruptions are caused by students who are afraid of failure or embarrassed because they do not understand the material.

Rebecca’s immediate restructuring of the learning activity disengaged Chris from his audience and enabled her to converse with him privately. A *private conversation preserves the student’s or students’ dignity, thereby forestalling a defensive or hostile response*. Then, rather than scold or preach, she dealt with his distress. She acknowledged his fears, suggested a strategy to direct his efforts, expressed confidence in him, and elicited his commitment to study. *Communicating high expectations is likely to improve student behavior as well as achievement*.

### Ariana’s Story

One particular incident happened during my middle school study hall. In the beginning of the year, I had difficulty conducting a study hall because some students wanted to talk, even rather loudly, and some wanted to do their work. Therefore, during our second session, the students and I together came up with a rule. They could speak to each other but only quietly so that others could do their work.

During the second week, Linda came to class late. She entered noisily and would not sit down. First, I said hello to her and asked her to please sit down. Since she had been in this study hall from the beginning, she was familiar with our rules. She refused to sit in a chair, sitting on a desk instead and talking loudly with another student. I asked her again to sit down, and she told me to f—off. I then very calmly told her to step outside the classroom.

I allowed Linda to stand outside the classroom for a minute so she could cool down and I could collect my thoughts. When I asked her what her problem was, she answered that I should not tell her what to do. I explained that she herself had helped to set up the rule. I then continued to explain that I should not and would not tolerate that kind of