# Preface

*From Lesson Plans to Power Struggles, Grades 6–12* is a book for novice secondary school teachers and those who foster their development. Its purpose is to help **novice teachers** improve their **classroom management** ability, that is, their ability to establish and maintain social order so that instruction and learning can occur. The term “novice teacher” refers here to a teacher with fewer than 3 years of teaching experience. Why a book for novice teachers? Because the novice years are crucial in establishing the pattern for a teacher’s future professional development. Yet novice teachers all too often are left to sink or swim. Hard-pressed to survive, they fall back on the few strategies they know. This book provides an opportunity for novice teachers to learn the classroom management strategies that other novice teachers have used, ones that could also be useful for them.

Why a book about classroom management? Because 50% of novice teachers leave the profession, many citing classroom management problems as the major source of their dissatisfaction. Moreover, principals, instructional supervisors, and the public focus on classroom management when assessing the efficacy of a teacher. Thus classroom management is a pressing concern for novice teachers. This book is an account of the strategies that more than 100 student teachers used to solve their ordinary classroom management problems.

Each chapter is about a particular kind of classroom management problem and consists of one to several novice teachers’ stories about managing that problem along with an analysis of the details, strategies, and practical principles that contributed to each teacher’s success. Why stories? A **story** is a narrative that imbues a set of events with meaning. Accordingly, a story is both more appealing and more memorable than a list of strategies or principles for informing the immediate decisions in managing a classroom.