14

# When a Good Student Violates a Minor Rule

Two **novice teachers** each found an alternative to punishment when a **good student** violated a minor rule. The term “good student” refers here to a student who understands and accepts classroom rules as reasonable, whose infractions are occasional at most and are the result of forgetfulness or lapses in self-control rather than defiance.

## Breeanne’s Story

One day, my middle school students were doing presentations in front of the class. During one presentation, the principal slipped into the classroom and made herself comfortable in the back row.

As the presentation continued, the unthinkable happened. A student’s cell phone beeped. As I turned in the direction of the beep, I knew exactly whose phone it was. Only one face had the look of utter terror, Bardo’s. I am still not sure who was more mortified, Bardo or I. Not wanting to distract further from the presentation, I tiptoed over to him to wait for an appropriate moment to address the situation.

Bardo, like most of the others, tries so hard to be good, but we all make mistakes. I like to give this kind of kid a second chance, but with the principal standing right there, I wasn’t sure whether she expected me to confiscate his phone. Moments later, she got up to leave and on the way out, whispered to him, “Keep that cell phone off, huh?”

After she left, Bardo and I both heaved a sigh of relief. Leaning over, I told him how lucky he was that she made light of the situation.