the teacher as on their side.

## Note to Shari’s Story: Shy Students

Shari wisely forestalled the buildup of Jeff’s resistance and anxiety. However, she needs to be careful that she doesn’t support his shyness. Instead, she needs to pressure him steadily but patiently to change, beginning with his actively participating in small-group activities.

- Good, T. L., & Brophy, J. E. (2008). *Looking in classrooms* (10th ed.). Boston: Pearson.

## Becoming Ensnared in a Power Struggle

## Brett’s Story

Last week in my consumer math class, I was challenged to maintain classroom discipline. This class has 13 ninth and tenth graders, nearly all doing poorly and showing little respect for anyone in the room. The particular student who challenged me, Joe, had recently returned from a 5-day suspension. He has a well-developed physique and enjoys showing it off.

I began the class by asking the students to study for the quiz I was going to give them later in the period. At first, Joe didn’t want to study, so I threatened to give the quiz to the class right then and there. The other students, however, convinced him to take out his notebook and study. After about a minute, he began to talk to the student next to him, so I moved Joe’s seat to the back of the room. After about another minute, he began talking to the same student again, now from across the room. At this point, I told him to stop talking and study for the quiz. To this he answered, “What are you gonna do if I don’t?”

I threatened him again, this time to write a referral on him. So he quickly quieted down because he had been told that if he got any more referrals, he could be thrown out of school.