# 11

## When There’s a Threat to Student Safety

Teachers are responsible for providing a standard of care commensurate with their students’ maturity and the hazards of the activity. Generally, initial management interventions should be subtle, but when student safety is at risk, the intervention must be as intrusive and direct as necessary to neutralize the threat immediately.

A threat to student safety can be physical, social, or psychological. The first two stories are about providing a **physically safe learning environment**, one in which the teacher models and the students practice techniques to protect themselves, each other, and the environment from physical harm. The third story is about providing a **socially and psychologically safe learning environment**. In such an environment, students interact respectfully and supportively, each feeling valued and capable of both learning and contributing to the learning of others.

### Stephanie’s Story

The students in my seventh-period food preparation class were grilling and carving meats. Because of the relatively high hazard level, I needed to ensure that they were working safely. When I tried to quiet them down for cleanup directions, however, I got no response. I tried again, asking politely, but again, no response.

At his point, I was furious and yelled, “Kids! Be quiet!” Finally, I was able to give them the cleanup directions, and after they cleaned up, they returned to their seats. I sat at the desk and said nothing. Feeling