from working together again. This consequence was not a punishment, however. Punishment does not deter misbehavior; it fosters resentment, not cooperation. Rather, she was preventing a recurrence and providing an opportunity for each of them to practice better judgment.

Tina, unlike Dora, presented herself to the four as the authority. Novice teachers have difficulty claiming their power as the authority, some, perhaps including Tina, feeling awkward at assuming this unfamiliar role. Nevertheless, she composed herself, summoned her courage, and spoke to the group calmly, courteously, briefly, and firmly. You too can execute your decisions with the conviction of a baseball umpire. Authority figures do not rant, plead, preach, or belittle; they don’t have to. They address the situation, not the shortcomings of the student(s). Thus Tina could sustain a mutually respectful relationship with her students despite having to express disapproval and impose a consequence.

Like Dora, Tina spoke to her students in private. A private conversation preserves the student’s or students’ dignity, thereby forestalling a defensive or hostile response. Thus her students, mindful that she was in charge and grateful for her evenhandedness, agreed to her conditions readily.

How could you use Tina’s proactive strategy to treat a current problem? How could you use other proactive strategies?

## Note: Proactive and Reactive Management Strategies

Levin and Nolan (2007) recommend seven proactive management strategies to minimize the likelihood of misbehavior: Some examples are changing the pace of the lesson, temporarily removing a distracting object, and redirecting the behavior of off-task students. The goal of proactive management strategies is to encourage students to exercise self-control. The teacher can then treat the misbehaviors that do emerge with reactive management strategies.

- Levin, J., & Nolan, J. F. (2007). *Principles of classroom management: A professional decision-making model* (5th ed.). Boston: Allyn & Bacon.

