participate in the activity. A teacher can regain students’ interest by involving them in an appealing learning activity.

Mandy had an efficient routine for distributing (and collecting) materials. She used bins, which are especially useful when the items are numerous or small. However, like Amy, Mandy handed out the materials too soon, before she’d had a chance to explain their use. Sometimes a teacher needs to distribute a piece of equipment to instruct students in its use. *If students must hold a piece of equipment so you can instruct them in its use, then distribute just that piece of equipment.*

Mandy tells us that during her first class, because she spoke too quickly, students missed part of her directions. Novice teachers, because their anxiety drives them to rush, need to make a deliberate effort to slow down. Still, students are likely to miss directions for other reasons as well, such as being distracted or coming to class late. Therefore, *students need a set of written directions.* (In Chapter 4, read about the chaos Melissa, Charlotte, and Tara each experienced when their students did not have a simple set of written directions.)

Why was Mandy’s warning likely to be more effective than Tara’s (Chapter 4)?

## Note to Mandy’s Story: Logical Consequence or Punishment

Mandy offered her students a choice, either comply or face the **logical consequence**, namely, having to complete the lab during their lunch period. A logical consequence is defined as a reasonable outcome the teacher imposes that is directly related to the **misbehavior**. Dreikurs and Grey (1968) and Levin and Nolan (2007) advocate imposing a logical consequence as long as the student sees the relationship between the misbehavior and the consequence. Then the teacher is not cast in the role of punisher, and the consequence, unlike a punishment, would imply no anger or moral judgment.

- Dreikurs, R., & Grey, L. (1968). *A new approach to discipline: Logical consequences*. New York: Hawthorne.
- Levin, J., & Nolan, J. F. (2007). *Principles of classroom management: A professional decision-making model* (5th ed.). Boston: Allyn & Bacon.

Kohn (2006a), however, argues that the term “logical consequence” is simply a euphemism for punishment, that students are not likely to see the connection between the misbehavior and the consequence, that they are still likely to see the teacher as the punisher, and that the act of imposing a consequence is, like all punishment, coercive rather than instructive.