I have also taken to using the names as a warning system. When he misbehaves once, I correct him using the name Paul, but when he pushes too far, I use his real name, mentioning that his behavior flustered me so much that I called him Carl instead of Paul. At this point, he usually exerts more self-control.

Wilma’s calling him Paul made Carl feel significant. *Enhancing chronically disruptive students’ feelings of significance might, over time, improve their behavior.* She reverted to the name Carl as a more intrusive reminder when, after correcting him as Paul, his **misbehavior** continued. That is, she had a systematic plan to manage his behavior. *Teachers need a systematic management plan ranging from subtle to progressively more direct and intrusive interventions.*

How could you enhance a chronically disruptive student’s feelings of significance? Consider assigning the student a high-status role in maintaining the classroom. For example, ask him or her to distribute materials, set up equipment, or create displays. Or consider expressing pleasure at his or her participation in a school event. Say, for example, “I enjoyed seeing you on the soccer field yesterday.”

## Jeremy’s Story

Since the first day of class, Kevin has turned in hardly any assignments, and when he has, they have been incomplete. Furthermore, he hasn’t completed any of the earth science lab reports required to sit for the Regents Exam. In fact, he flatly refuses to do any work whatsoever!

His behavior? Well, that’s downright awful too. He is disrespectful, talks out during class, and bothers the other students. Several have even told him to leave them alone because they want to participate and need to concentrate.

I have tried various strategies including moving his seat to the front of the room, calling his guardian, and writing referrals, but nothing seems to work. Although his talking out during class has eased somewhat, he continues to keep his head down on the desk throughout the entire lesson, regardless of what I say to him.