So I went to the source and said, “Brian, please turn around and pay attention.” A few minutes later, I could hear talking around Brian again, so I tried a different technique. I walked closer to Brian, stood there, and said, “I’ll wait.” In 3 seconds, the room was quiet. And it stayed quiet. Amazed, I continued with the lesson. The “I’ll wait” signal has worked for me ever since.

Steve’s signal had two phases. First, he moved toward Brian. Sometimes just moving toward the source of disruption is sufficient to prevent or stop it. Called proximity interference, it’s a useful first step in a management plan because it is nonverbal. Nonverbal signals are better than verbal signals because they do not provoke defensive arguments or hostile confrontations. Nonverbal signals also do not interrupt the flow of the lesson, and they invite the students to control their own behavior. The second phase of Steve’s signal was to make a brief, almost private statement to Brian and the kids around him. Steve did not preach, moralize, or scold. He simply said, “I’ll wait.” Thus Steve used a two-phase signal consisting of a nonverbal and then a slightly more intrusive verbal intervention.

If necessary, Steve could have enhanced the effect of his signal by coupling it with a bold stance or resolute expression or gesture, such as folding his arms, and using that set of cues consistently with and exclusively for that signal (see Chapter 6, Jodi’s Story). Teachers can strengthen a signal with multiple cues. But what could Steve have done if Brian still continued to talk? See the next story for what Merry did.

### Merry’s Story

As I was about to begin my eighth-period class, I felt the energy vibrate through the room. I told the students to take their seats and settle down. They did what I told them, all of them except Joel. As I started the lesson, he continued to talk and fidget with his back to the front of the room. As the lesson continued, I had to give Joel several direct warnings about his disruptive behavior. My warnings seemed to work but only temporarily. I knew something more had to be done, so I asked Joel to see me after class.