move out of the way, even to line up in the hall. The last thing you would want is for any of them to be injured or embroiled in a fray.

Then, to the extent that you can do so safely, move objects such as desks, chairs, equipment, and personal possessions out of the way. Your *second priority* is to protect the students who are fighting. Your *third priority* is to protect property. Later, when all is calm, you can speak separately and privately with the students who were fighting.

## Note: Overlapping and Withitness

Whereas overlapping refers to teachers attending to two or more situations or tasks simultaneously, *withitness* refers to their communicating to their students that they know what their students are up to. With-it teachers are the ones students say have eyes in the back of their head. Kounin (1970) invented these two related concepts to measure teachers’ classroom management ability, with overlapping a necessary skill to achieve withitness.

- Kounin, J. S. (1970). *Discipline and group management in classrooms*. New York: Holt, Rinehart & Winston.

Once she could overlap, that is, simultaneously monitor separate groups of students, Kerrie, Bullough’s first-year teacher, could execute more elaborate and interesting lessons.

- Bullough, R. V., Jr. (1989). *First-year teacher: A case study*. New York: Teachers College Press.

## Note: Adolescent Conflict Resolution

Jones and Jones (2001) developed a seven-step plan for solving classroom conflicts. According to the plan, the teacher asks the conflicting parties such questions as, What happened? Is this behavior helping you or others? How could you have behaved differently? And are you willing to commit to changing your behavior?

- Jones, V., & Jones, L. (2001). *Comprehensive classroom management: Creating communities of support and solving problems* (6th ed.). Boston: Allyn & Bacon.

