response, however, Gary said nothing at first and then shifted to the opposite extreme, issuing a threat. *Using threats (or bribes) to control student behavior was not only useless but undermines any potential for a mutually respectful relationship.*

The next day, Gary spoke privately with Mike. A private conversation preserves the student’s or students’ dignity, thereby forestalling a defensive or hostile response. By discussing their different roles, they could each come to understand each other’s perspective. A teacher needs to make sure that students understand the problem from the teacher’s perspective and that he or she understands it from theirs. As a result of Gary’s approach, he and Mike began to build a relationship. *The development of a trusting relationship with a caring adult is the most effective strategy for treating a student with a chronic school problem.*

# Clark’s Story

Anthony is a disruptive student in my 10th-grade class. He is also the school’s football hero. He constantly comes to class late and behaves disrespectfully. For example, he has gotten up in the middle of class, walked around, and at times, even sung aloud. To make matters worse, he is the ringleader in a class that, as a whole, has behavior problems and learning difficulties. During the first few weeks, I tried everything to get him under control, but he met my threats of detention, referrals, and suspension with his typical nonchalance.

So I had to try another strategy. I convinced him to stay after school for a few minutes so I could go over with him some of his work and get him caught up. I used this opportunity to speak with him more personally and informally. I first explained that his behavior reflected badly on me as a teacher. I also told him that I was not going to give up on him and that I was available every day for extra help or just to talk. Last, I explained to him that his behavior influences all the others and that I wanted him to be a positive example for the rest of the class. So far, the talk has worked, and I have let him know that I have noticed and appreciate his improvement.

By speaking with him as I would to an adult, I gave him the attention he needs and earned the opportunity to build a relationship