Novice teachers have difficulty claiming their power as the authority. Nevertheless, Barney prepared himself to assume this unfamiliar role, charged toward the boys, and with a resolute stance and deep voice, issued a terse order. Teachers can strengthen a signal with multiple cues.

Fights can erupt in a study hall because some students cannot manage the unstructured time. *Unstructured time generates boredom, restlessness, and disruption.* Teachers who monitor study halls can reduce the likelihood of a fight by bringing along newspapers, magazines, puzzles, or collections of short stories. *Proactive management strategies are better than reactive management strategies.*

Although the boys quickly reconciled, Barney still needed to speak with them separately and privately about their behavior. *A private conversation preserves the student’s or students’ dignity, thereby forestalling a defensive or hostile response.* First, he needed to allow them to express their feelings, but then he needed to explain to them the difference between feelings and behavior, that someone can feel angry but never has the right to assault another person. *A teacher should be strict about students’ behavior but permissive about their feelings.*

Second, he needed to explain to them how their aggressive behavior could cause them to lose status with their peers. Third, he needed to coach them to recognize when they are becoming angry and to verbalize rather than act on how they feel.

## Arthur’s Story

The incident that stands out in my mind is when a boy wrote his name with a marker on the back of a girl’s brand-new sweatshirt. The students had been doing an activity to trace the sun’s path across the sky. They had gone outside to record marks on a plastic hemisphere to represent the positions of the sun. Once inside, they had to use that marker to trace the sun’s path on that hemisphere.

The students were working well in their assigned groups. As I was concentrating on helping one particular group, a girl in the back of the room suddenly screamed, “You asshole!” and started to go after a boy in a neighboring group. I stepped between them just as she was about to