Nevertheless, class clowns are persistent. Danny and Eric were effective enough to complete their lesson, but for a lasting solution, a teacher would need to persevere over weeks and even months to help a student improve his self-control. Specifically, first a teacher would need to speak with him in private to make sure he was aware of the behavior and why it cannot be tolerated and then get him to take responsibility for the behavior and make a commitment to change. *If students have made a commitment to a rule, especially one they had a share in creating, they are likely to correct their misbehavior with simply a reminder of the rule.*

Second, the teacher would need to develop with him some alternatives, such as writing down his comments instead of blurting them out, and then coach him to adopt those alternatives. Third, the teacher would need to warn him of the consequences if the behavior continued and follow through with those consequences while sustaining a mutually respectful relationship with him.

Class clowns generate the most disorder when the class is functioning as a whole group, such as during a lecture or **recitation**. Although they seek to dominate during small-group interactions as well, their impact is restricted to that smaller audience. Therefore, teachers with a class clown need to plan more small-group and fewer or shorter whole-class learning activities. *Whenever you have some students monopolizing the class’s time, you need to decentralize instruction.*

For example, instead of performing an activity as a demonstration followed by a whole-class discussion, have the students carry out and discuss the activity themselves in small groups. Or, instead of conducting the entire closing summary as a whole class, have each student turn to a neighbor and, as a pair, discuss and list the main points of the lesson. Only the last few minutes might then be a whole-class compilation of the main points.

## Note to Ellen’s Story: Communicating High Expectations

A teacher’s consistently communicating high social expectations can improve students’ personal and social development, such as their willingness to cooperate, participate, or collaborate with others.