made me anxious about managing the large classes of mostly minority students.

During these first few weeks, however, I have been teaching lessons with hands-on activities that have involved almost all the students. The head of the department recently observed me teaching a lesson on the color wheel, which I thought went well. All the students participated in the activities and seemed to understand the main points of the lesson.

When I met with the head of the department after the class, he said, “You seem to have the class under control, and I like the fact that you’ve created your own way to teach this concept.” I was overjoyed because I felt he was endorsing the approach I believe in.

I am fortunate to be in a school where the head of the department has confidence in me and encourages me to teach in a way that makes sense to me. Because of the school’s reputation, I was needlessly afraid of the classroom management challenges, but my lessons keep the kids engaged and reward them for their engagement.

Cora found that both the head of the department and her students were receptive to lessons with active learning opportunities. An appealing lesson is necessary but not sufficient to preclude most discipline problems. Because novice teachers have a limited repertoire of appealing lessons and little experience executing such lessons, classroom management is a pressing concern. The advantage of a well-planned lesson and the frustration that can come from an oversight in its execution are, accordingly, the subjects of Chapter 1.

