# Lisa’s Story

My biology class is made up of mostly ninth graders. They are usually a difficult group to keep on task. They meet eighth or ninth period every day and sometimes come from gym class. We were studying the human respiratory system, and I had planned an activity where the kids would have to construct a working model of the lungs. Once each group had constructed its model, the students were to show it to me and then work in their group on some questions. The management problem arose when some groups finished their model and questions well before the others. They then proceeded to poke, push, and bother each other and distract those who were not yet finished. Asking them to sit quietly was simply not working.

The problem arose because I had not given them enough work. Students should not have idle time. Now, in order to accommodate those who work more quickly, I make sure to include enrichment work along with the essential tasks. The fastest groups continue to work, and I stop the activity as soon as the slowest group has finished the essentials.

Lisa’s management problem was different from the others, who each had extra time at the end of their lesson. She had students with spare time in the middle of the lesson as they waited for others to finish. In her search for a solution, Lisa realized that *everyone need not complete every learning task, just its essential parts.*

Luz and Lisa each developed a strategy for engaging or keeping their students engaged in a learning activity. Luz developed a ready-made, generally appropriate supplementary activity for lesson closure, whereas Lisa assigned enrichment work for all individual and group activities. As a result, Luz and Lisa each demonstrated that *a novice teacher can avert the discipline problems consequential to all but the most egregious planning shortfalls.*

## Note to Luz’s and Lisa’s Stories: Overplanning