some of the others having drifted over to them, while the copiers were attracting another group in the back right corner.

Now I simplify directions. If I can’t give each student (or even each pair) a copy of simplified directions, then I at least summarize the essentials on a transparency and project them. This additional preparation is well worth the effort!

Charlotte’s students, like Melissa’s, probably experienced cognitive overload just trying to interpret the directions and thus missed the meaning of the activity, experienced frustration, and became disorderly. Charlotte recognized and has overcome this problem by having ready a set of simpler directions. She did not, however, focus on the problem of her students copying. How would you have treated their copying?

Their copying may have been the result of a genuine attempt to make sense of the activity. I wonder what they would have said if, instead of taking their papers, she had asked, “I see you’re having trouble with this activity. What help do you need to be able to do it?” Instead of punishing, a “working with” rather than a “doing to” approach promotes student maturity.

## Note to Melissa’s and Charlotte’s Stories: Time on Task

Students will spend more time on task if given both oral and written directions.

- Brophy, J. E. (1988). Educating teachers about managing classrooms and students. *Teaching and Teacher Education*, 4, 1–18.

### Barbara’s Story

After completing the lab on density, the students had to create a graph and answer a few questions. I demonstrated how to set up the graph with a title and labels for the x- and y-axes. As I circulated around the room, however, I discovered that a couple of groups needed help devising the scale for each axis. After attending to these two groups, I realized the rest of the class was getting antsy because they too didn’t know how to