reassigning it, but I made sure this time that I wrote it on the board. My students handed in the worksheet the following day.

David realized that he needed to follow the previous teacher’s routine for communicating the homework assignment. *If used consistently, a routine minimizes the time and energy needed to direct a regular classroom event.* If he wanted to change the routine, he would have to direct his students explicitly and then provide them with feedback and reminders.

Just as David needed a routine for communicating the assignment, teachers also need a routine for collecting, reviewing, evaluating, and returning the assignment promptly, as well as for recording the grades and otherwise holding their students accountable for doing it. Inasmuch as many secondary school teachers see more than 100 students per day, the commitment to process homework daily may be too onerous for a *novice teacher*, whose time might be better spent developing lessons. Therefore, if you do assign daily homework, consider a routine in which you walk around during the donow crediting each student who has completed the homework. Likewise, consider collecting and reviewing only a sample of students’ work each day or all the students’ work but only once per week.

## Note to David’s Story: Routines

Teachers structure their learning environment with routines to manage both student work and regular classroom events, such as beginning and ending each lesson, distributing and collecting materials, and using classroom space.

- Everston, C. (1987). Managing classrooms: A framework for teachers. In D. Berliner & B. Rosenshine (Eds.), *Talks to teachers* (pp. 54–75). New York: Random House.

## Betsy’s Story

The biggest problem I had with my students was getting them to turn in their homework. Although I kept telling them it was important to complete their assignments, I was still receiving only a handful of