It started off with just a few of them chatting. I promptly made it clear that their talking was disruptive. I was trying to finish up the lesson so I did nothing more. Well, that was definitely a mistake. Now I had six people involved in conversations, which would stop when I told them to but then resume as soon as I did. I probably could have moved their seats, but with only a few minutes left, I didn’t.

After two more warnings, I was at my wit’s end. I told the entire class that because I had had to give them too many warnings, they were to remain in their seats when the bell rang, their next period being lunch. After the bell, I spent the next 40 seconds finishing my lesson. Then I took the next minute to explain why I had to keep them, why their actions were disruptive, and how their disruptions caused the entire class to have to stay. I got the class to acknowledge what had just happened, and at that point, I let them go to lunch, telling the select few troublemakers that they would not be sitting next to each other tomorrow.

Upon reflection, I realized I should not have punished the good students by keeping them all after the bell, and that my reprimanding the troublemakers did not have to be conducted in front of the entire class. So now I know that teachers should not punish everyone for the actions of a few, and those actions should be dealt with privately.

Matt learned one thing he should never do: *Never impose group punishment.* But he had yet to devise a strategy to deal with the class when it gets noisy, perhaps because he had yet to recognize his own contribution to the problem. *Only when you recognize your own contribution to a problem do you have any power to solve it.*

For example, he issued a set of warnings rather than explain his feelings. Instead of saying, “Your talking is disruptive,” which is arguable, he should have told the class how he felt, saying something like this: “I am angry because the few minutes we have left are being wasted with side chatter.” In other words, he needed to *address the situation, not the shortcomings of the student(s).*

Second, he could have restructured the last few minutes of the lesson from a whole-class to an individual or paired activity. If he were giving some summarizing notes, he could instead have asked the students to make