but only when directed at the teacher or a situation, never at a student.

## Note to Marty’s Story: Humor in the Classroom

Saphier and Gower (1982) explain the benefits of humor in the classroom. Humor defuses tension, and as a shared experience, it promotes a sense of community.

- Saphier, J., & Gower, R. (1982). *The skillful teacher*. Carlisle, MA: Research for Better Teaching.

Levin and Nolan (2007) make the distinction between humor, which is directed at the teacher or situation, and sarcasm, which is directed at a student or students. Likewise, Ginott (1972) warns that sarcasm destroys the teacher–student relationship.

- Ginott, H. G. (1972). *Teacher and child: A book for parents and teachers*. New York: Macmillan.
- Levin, J., & Nolan, J. F. (2007). *Principles of classroom management: A professional decision-making model* (5th ed.). Boston: Allyn & Bacon.

### Peter’s Story

I was giving my earth science class some notes on weathering and erosion in preparation for their final exam. Many students started to complain about too many lessons with too many notes. So I went out into the field and made a videotape of the Kaaterskill Creek to show them an example of weathering and erosion. Making the video was good because the students got a familiar reference for the concepts and saw that I cared about them. I learned that if students see their teacher doing something extra for them, then more times than not, they’ll appreciate it and try to learn the material.

Instead of blaming his students for complaining, Peter accepted the responsibility for making his lessons interesting. He boosted his students’ interest by demonstrating the concepts of weathering and erosion with a local example. More generally, he attended to his students’ feelings and responded graciously to them. *Welcome the expression of your students’ feelings as feedback to improve your teaching.*