language in the classroom or anywhere else for that matter. I told her that if she was really against the rule, I would help her transfer to another study hall. Then I waited a while and said that most people have a bad day now and then but that taking it out on others doesn’t solve anything. I waited again and then asked her what she planned to do. She said that she would remain in the study hall and that she would come back in and try to follow the rule. I agreed and decided not to write her up for inappropriate language.

The following day Linda came into the classroom a different person. The first thing she did was apologize to me for what she had said the previous day. I accepted her apology, thanked her, and since that day, I haven’t had a problem with Linda.

Ariana’s response was similar to Rebecca’s. In acknowledging Linda’s bad day, Ariana accepted her student’s feelings but upheld her standard of behavior. A teacher should be strict about students’ behavior but permissive about their feelings. Ariana also spoke privately with her student, keeping her message brief and focused on a solution.

First, Ariana reminded Linda that Linda herself had participated in creating the rule. If students have made a commitment to a rule, especially one they had a share in creating, they are likely to correct their misbehavior with simply a reminder of the rule. Second, Ariana gave Linda a choice about staying in the study hall. Offering a choice fosters autonomy rather than dependency and lessens defiance. Third, Ariana gave them both a chance to calm down, and she gave Linda the time to make a thoughtful decision.

Last, like Rebecca, Ariana elicited her student’s commitment to cooperate, in this case to follow the rule.

## Mary’s Story

All my eighth-grade classes are rambunctious, but my first-period class is both rambunctious and insolent. The day was a testing day, when the first 2 hours would be for the students to take a standardized test with their first-period teacher. The time needed, however, is only about an hour and 15 minutes.