help him with his assignments. I told him I would gladly help him, that all he had to do was ask me respectfully.

Since that day, I have had no problem with him. I believe he respected me for putting my foot down and had wanted me to do that from the very beginning. Now that he knows I am in charge, he is ready to work when he comes to class.

Although Shannon had initially ignored his impudence, she eventually did assert her authority. *Novice teachers have difficulty claiming their power as the authority.* She rebuked him (presum-ably while keeping the discussion private). A *penetrating comment may be necessary to remind students when they are not living up to expectations or their responsibilities.* She also, however, assured him of her help as long as he asked her respectfully. Moreover, she came to realize her own contribution to the problem, that she should have reproved him earlier. *Only when you recognize your own contribution to a problem do you have any power to solve it.*

How would you have responded to him when you first found his attitude obnoxious?

## Victoria’s Story

Having been born in Russia, I was aware of my accent. Although I didn’t feel comfortable talking about it with my students, I expected to hear comments and questions about it. I heard nothing about it, however, until one day, when I heard a lot.

I started the lesson with my usual **do-now**, review questions about the previous lesson. When we began going over the questions, I heard two girls in the back of the room burst out laughing.

“Mitten what?” one of them asked.

“Mitochondria,” I responded.

“I do not understand you, and I can’t even hear you!” shouted the other girl. The comment was harsh especially from someone who had been actively participating during our lessons.

The girls kept laughing. Other students picked up on the joke and went along with the girls. I was losing control. I wasn’t prepared to