# Claiming Their Authority

## Thomas’s Story

The students had started to get unruly, the noise level getting a little louder each day. My gentle reminders, which worked at first, were no longer effective. It soon dawned on me that although it was against my nature, I would have to get stern with them. So in one class, the worst of them, I started the lesson with a thunderous announcement, one that froze them on the spot:

“Listen up,” I shouted. “I am in this class to teach, and you are here to learn, but the noise level is keeping everyone from accomplishing these goals. From now on, if I have to tell anyone twice during the same lesson to quiet down, I will write out a referral and send it to the principal’s office. I sincerely mean this and give you my word that I will follow through on this.” That happened last week.

So far, except for a few minor disturbances, the students have been comparative angels. I hope I never have to follow through with my threat, but alas, I know I will.

Thomas came to realize that he, like Patrick, must claim his power as the authority in order to establish and maintain an effective learning environment. Although he framed his rule as a threat, Thomas explained to his students that its purpose, far from being arbitrary, was for their benefit. Second, he provided a warning system for his students to learn his limits and control their behavior accordingly. Third, he spelled out the consequence.

Thomas’s rule, however, had disadvantages. First, a referral to the principal’s office is an extreme reaction to his students being noisy. *An administrative intervention should be reserved for an emergency*, such as for violence or the threat of violence, not for an ordinary situation like continuing side chatter (see Chapter 29 for examples of appropriate occasions for an administrative intervention). Second, the students needed to see that Thomas, not the principal, was in charge of their class. And third, Thomas threatened his students with a punishment. **Punishment does not**