captured the attention of the other students and redirected the behavior of the clown. *Give a class clown attention but for only appropriate behavior.*

# Pushing the Class Clown Off the Stage

## Ellen’s Story

I especially remember Tim. He was an intelligent boy but also the class clown, always talking and interrupting the lesson with his jokes. Finishing his own work quickly, he would then disturb his classmates and disrupt the entire class. At first, I tried directing specific questions toward him, but this strategy didn’t work. He was on center stage. In spite of being disruptive, however, I must say he did his assignments, even correcting them for extra credit, and otherwise showed concern for his grades.

One day during class, I changed his seat. He certainly didn’t like that, but the immediate result was that he was more attentive. When the class was over, I explained to him the reason for the change, that he needed to pay more attention and show more respect to his classmates and me. Finally, I told him that because he was an intelligent boy, I had high expectations for him.

During the days that followed, his behavior improved. Yes, he has his ups and downs, but all in all, he is more attentive and respectful.

Ellen was effective, first, not so much because she changed his seat but because she explained to him privately why she had done so. A private conversation preserves the student’s or students’ dignity, thereby forestalling a defensive or hostile response. Second, in her explanation, she affirmed her high expectations for him. Communicating high expectations is likely to improve student behavior as well as achievement. And last, in the context of her high expectations and his concern for his grades, he could understand why the seat change was for his benefit. Students need to understand the rationale behind a rule, routine, or expectation, that each is not simply an arbitrary attempt to control their behavior.