The students were especially rowdy. They were not paying attention to the directions. Once they finished the given step, they would begin talking with their neighbor. It was difficult to regain their attention to give them the directions for the next step. Also, many students had lost the notes they needed to identify each phase on the wheel. Students ended up sharing their notes, which gave them even more opportunities to be rowdy.

Now I print a complete set of directions so everyone can work without having to wait for others. And I print any additional notes they might need, not for them to keep but to have as a reference during class. I also have students work in pairs, even for individual projects, so they can share materials and help each other before having to ask me for help. And when they are in pairs, I can get around to them more efficiently.

Melissa’s manner of delivering the directions failed to take into account the different rates at which her students would be working, that virtually all of them would end up having to wait at some point, probably several times in addition to having to wait for a pair of scissors and then again for her to glue their paper. First, she had too much **dead time**, the time during a lesson when students are not engaged in a learning activity. **Dead time generates disorder.**

Second, she delivered the directions only orally. To attend to her directions, everyone in the entire class would have to be quiet at the same time and for an extended period of time, an unrealistic expectation during project work, and the students would have to understand, remember, and be able to follow the directions upon hearing them, another unrealistic expectation. *Students need a set of written directions.* By printing the directions, she eliminates the dead time from a piecemeal delivery, and by having her students work in pairs, she reduces the dead time when they need help.

Third, the cognitive burden of constructing the wheel probably precluded her students’ understanding the principle behind it, namely, why the moon has phases, presumably the point of the lesson. In short, Melissa’s students may have executed the procedure without understanding its meaning. *Difficult tasks perceived as meaningless generate frustration and*