and when they chat a little, I am no longer afraid to speak to them firmly.

I have learned that I can be only so nice. They have to respect my authority. So if you’re not getting the respect you need, you have to do something to gain your students’ respect.

Alison, like Thomas, came to assume her power as the manager, first by explaining how and why her students’ behaviors were unacceptable. And like Thomas, she stated the message briefly, without preaching, blaming, or recounting the past. Her strategy, however, is more promising than Thomas’s. Rather than making a threat, she changed her students’ seats so as to make it easier for them to control their own behavior. *Rather than impose control, foster students’ self-control.*

## Casey’s Story

My eighth-period class is the most challenging of all. The lessons are typically disrupted by constant chatter and frequent bathroom breaks, all leading to confusion, the need to repeat directions, and the loss of valuable time. This class is always behind my others. I’ve asked the students to be quiet, taken away their bathroom privileges, and threatened to change their seats. Nothing has worked. I needed to do something else to establish order.

I took control. First, I made a seating chart. The students were shocked that I would actually follow through with my threat to change their seats. Still, I knew that just changing their seats would not be enough. They would soon be comfortable in their new seats, and the disruptions would begin all over again.

So I also made a commitment to provide an activity for them, to settle them down as soon as they entered the classroom. I started preparing a daily **do-now**. Since these two changes, the students have been more attentive, and distractions are few.

Casey too found that her pleas, empty threats, and punishments were useless. She needed to be a manager instead of a disciplinarian. Like Alison,