Debby has been a defiant student. She entered the room totally unprepared, as usual. The students had been told to bring two pencils and their novels from English class to read after they finished the test. I asked Debby where her pencils and book were and escorted her to her locker where I was rewarded with a string of colorful expletives and told to get out of her face and mind my own business. I chose to disregard the verbal assault and calmly said that her education was my business and I knew she could behave if she put her mind to it. She acknowledged my statement with another verbal assault.

A patient and saintly veteran teacher witnessing the event kindly asked whether Debby could take the test in her room. Debby was directed across the hall to the teacher’s time-out table, and I brought her the test booklet. I told her that no matter how she felt about me, she had a lot of potential, and this test would decide which classes she would take next year. I told her that her future was her responsibility, no one else’s, and the choice was hers. Then I left the room.

I handled it that way because I didn’t know what else to do. Honestly, I was in shock. But I learned that maintaining control and sending a student to another teacher could be the best things to do. I later received a nice note from Debby followed by a face-to-face apology. She explained that she had had a particularly bad weekend at home and exploded at the first authority figure she encountered. Also, she told the other teacher that my comment to her before the test was the first time anyone had told her that she had potential.

I am learning that each incident has a history and must be handled in an individual way. Debby is still a handful, but I have seen a big improvement. The frequency of her outbursts has diminished, and she has pulled her grade up from an F to a C+. I continue to encourage her while holding her accountable, and she seems to be receptive.

Like the other teachers, Mary turned her student’s tantrum into an opportunity to foster cooperation. She discussed Debby’s behavior with her in private, expressed confidence in her, offered her a choice, refrained from preaching, and, instead, focused on a solution. And, like the others, while acknowledging her student’s feelings, Mary upheld her standard of behavior.