are not used to this demonstration of respect, but they appreciate it. I get more cooperation when I remain calm and explain what is wrong and what we are going to do about it.

Jack practices four practical principles to avoid a power struggle. First, he expresses his wishes as a request rather than a demand. He knows that *issuing an order promotes defiance, not cooperation*. Second, rather than charging his requests with blame, he focuses on a solution. He knows to *address the situation, not the shortcomings of the student(s)*.

Third, Jack justifies his requests. *Students need to understand the rationale behind a rule*, **routine**, *or expectation, that each is not simply an arbitrary attempt to control their behavior*. And last, he knows that *teachers cannot control their students’ behaviors, although they can influence and react to them*. *Teachers can, however, control their own behavior*. Accordingly, he behaves calmly and respectfully.

## Shari’s Story

My Spanish class has only 12 students, so I assigned each one a different verb. Each student was to prepare a poster to depict the meaning of the verb and compose two sentences in Spanish, each with a correct present-tense form of the verb. Then, while standing in front of the class, the student would read the sentences while displaying the poster.

One particularly shy student refused to read his sentences. So I quickly said, “Okay, Jeff. I’ll read your sentences while you display your poster.” He readily agreed, and the lesson proceeded smoothly.

I was able to avoid a power struggle because I knew Jeff well enough to propose an alternative he would accept. Pushing students results only in their dragging their feet or digging in their heels. I have learned that if I get to know my students, I can offer a compromise that will avoid a power struggle.

Sensitive to their distress, Shari accommodates her students. She is on their side. Teachers are more likely to be successful with students who see