More fundamentally, Jenny held a misconception common among novice teachers that she is responsible for controlling her students’ behaviors. In truth, teachers cannot control their students’ behaviors, although they can influence and react to them. Teachers can, however, control their own behavior.

As she sheds her misconception, Jenny can define her role more broadly. Instead of being preoccupied as a disciplinarian, she can become a classroom manager devising strategies for preventing rather than merely treating the disruptions. And once she can separate their misbehavior from her sense of worth, she need not take their misbehaviors personally. **Resist the tendency to take your students’ misbehaviors personally.**

## Patrick’s Story

I found myself giving the students various ultimatums in response to their misbehavior. For example, “If you don’t stop the chatter, I will lengthen the homework assignment” or “If you don’t pay attention, I will give you a quiz.” I was bargaining with the students to act appropriately. The students would temporarily direct their attention to me, but after just a few seconds, they would return to their private conversations.

I had forgotten that I was the one in charge, that I didn’t have to hand out ultimatums. I simply had to make my expectations clear and then treat the students in accord with those expectations.

Patrick came to realize that he already had the power to manage his class and that he could exercise that power by communicating his expectations. *Novice teachers have difficulty claiming their power as the authority*, some, probably including Patrick, failing to distinguish between being authoritative and authoritarian. As a result, they experience a tension between their conception of an authority as necessarily authoritarian and the image they have of themselves as a warm and caring adult.

In the next set of stories, Thomas, Alison, and Casey claim their power, each going further than Patrick to manage the side chatter.