Marilyn had the courage to exercise her authority but also the sense to realize its limitations. An *administrative intervention* should be reserved for an emergency, but what constitutes an emergency? The following are examples of a situation that would require an administrative intervention: violence or the threat of violence to a person or property; criminal activity such as stealing or the possession of drugs, alcohol, or a weapon; a student refusing to leave the room when the teacher orders it; or a trespasser on school property. Other grounds for the intervention of either an administrator or other school personnel, such as the school nurse, social worker, guidance counselor, or psychologist, would include evidence of truancy, a threat to the health of a student or the school community, possible child abuse, and extreme behaviors such as disrobing or self-mutilation.

Unlike administrative interventions, however, which should be reserved for emergencies, a conversation with an administrator, as Sari learned, can be an opportunity to gain insight.

### Sari’s Story

I was new to the school and to the experience of keeping a student for detention. What should I do with her for 45 minutes? I had assigned Fran to an afterschool detention for sticking a wad of bubble gum under her desk. Having failed to enforce the policy against chewing gum, I was now stuck with not just her wad, which was still gooey, but, as I came to see, a million others fossilized under the other desks.

As I was rushing out for bus duty, I passed the assistant principal and asked him what I should do with her during the detention. I shall never forget his answer. “It doesn’t matter what you do with her,” he said, “as long as your relationship with her is stronger when she leaves.”

Fran and I worked side by side to clean up the desks, but more important, we talked. As a seventh grader, she, like me, was new to the school. So we each had a chance to compare this school with our former school. And I don’t think she ever disposed of her gum like that again, at least not in my class.

Remember, save administrative interventions for emergencies like Marilyn’s, but don’t overlook opportunities for an administrator’s advice.