activity, she had assigned the class to work in pairs. *Having students work in pairs (with teacher support) is particularly useful for low achievers, who can then teach each other without the fear of making a mistake publicly.*

## Henry’s Story

I prepared a lesson for my ninth graders on how to identify the relative age of rock layers. I started the lesson with a **do-now**, where the students were to define some terms in their text that they would need for the lesson. I gave them 3 minutes, and while they were defining the terms, I projected a few diagrams on the screen.

When they finished the do-now, I asked several students to identify the structures in the diagrams that would be crucial to their understanding the rest of the lesson. Then I took about 10 minutes to review the homework because the day’s activity would be based on that information as well.

Next I distributed a worksheet with a geologic cross section that was much more complex than the homework they had just completed. The students were to work in groups of three to answer the seven questions on the worksheet while I circulated among them to make sure they were on task and on track. I used about 13 of the 15 minutes I’d allotted for this worksheet activity.

Then, for us to see how well they understood the activity, I placed a transparency of the worksheet on the overhead projector and asked several “what if” and “why” questions related to the cross section. These questions took about 7 minutes. Finally, I closed the lesson with a summary, some comments about the next day’s topic, and the homework assignment.

My management strategy was to keep the students busy. I allowed a few minutes for the transition from one instructional segment to the next but otherwise maximized the instructional time available in a 40-minute period.

Henry crafted his lesson with a clear objective and the 40-minute time frame in mind. Through a series of instructional segments, he got his students settled, reviewed the homework, and focused them on the day’s