Make the connection between instructional segments explicit to your students. 1

Materials should be distributed no sooner than immediately before each student or group is to use them, and they should be collected no later than immediately after each student or group is finished with them. 9

Never impose group punishment. 4, 8, 22

Never leave your class unattended. 24

No matter what 3- to 5-minute activity or activities you regularly use for your do-now, your students should be able to find the written directions themselves, in the same place every day, as they enter your classroom. 6

Nonverbal signals are better than verbal signals because they do not provoke defensive arguments or hostile confrontations. 7, 8, 9, 11, 17, 27

Nonverbal signals also do not interrupt the flow of the lesson, and they invite the students to control their own behavior. 7, 17, 27

Novice teachers have difficulty claiming their power as the authority. 7, 18, 19, 24

Offering a choice fosters autonomy rather than dependency and lessens defiance. 17, 18, 20, 21, 25, 26

Only when you recognize your own contribution to a problem do you have any power to solve it. 2, 4, 8, 12, 16, 19, 25, 28

Preparation and organization are crucial to the execution of an activity-based lesson. 1, C

Proactive management strategies are better than reactive management strategies. 18, 23, 24, C

Punctuating a lecture with thought-provoking questions (typically “why,” “how,” or “what if” questions) can stimulate interest. 3, 12