noise level gets out of control. This event is a reminder to me that a teacher needs to have a sense of humor and not take things personally.

Sheila enjoyed the candor of her students.

## Erin’s Story

As I began to give the notes for Chapter 33, Janet raised her hand, and with a smirk on her face, said, “‘Fishes’ isn’t a word.” I told her that although it sounds funny and is not normally used, the textbook uses the term so that’s why I used it.

Janet replied, “Well, I’m sorry, but ever since I was little, my parents have told me there’s no such word as ‘fishes.’ We don’t call a herd of deer ‘deers’ either.”

I simply said that I was sorry she felt that way and continued giving notes.

As the students were writing, I checked the textbook and announced to the class, “Just so nobody loses any sleep tonight, you can find the word ‘fishes’ on pages 251–255.”

As I thought about it, I wondered whether Janet felt that my remark about not losing sleep had been sarcastic. I know she did not mean to be argumentative. I meant only to clarify why I was using such an uncommon word. Since then, I have become sensitive to the feelings of my students, even if they express themselves rudely, and am careful about the way I phrase my comments to them.

Erin understood that sarcasm poisons relationships. Had she realized before the class was over that Janet might have taken offense, she could have spoken to her or to the entire class, saying something like this:

> You know, I listened to my remark about your not losing sleep over the correct plural for “fish” and began to wonder whether I sounded sarcastic. A sarcastic remark is a mocking remark. Sarcastic remarks are hurtful. So I hope I didn’t sound that way, but if I did, I did not