whether they would like to take the first 10 minutes to talk with each other or just to sit and think. They seemed grateful for this suggestion. A few of the girls who were crying gathered in the back of the room. I had graded their tests over the weekend but decided not to return them right away. I figured receiving their grades might create additional stress for some of them.

After the first 10 minutes, I announced I would begin the lesson. I told the students they could excuse themselves at any time if they were feeling overwhelmed and wanted to visit one of the grief sites. Three girls who were crying left the room. The rest of the class quietly followed along as I drew on a transparency a time line of the emperors and projected it onto the screen. I had also planned some group work for them, but somehow I didn’t think they’d be up to it. I think just sitting and listening to me was all they could do. Some looked relieved just to have something else to think about.

My other classes were scheduled for a test that day. Many of the girls in these classes are on the basketball team, and Mr. Cedric’s wife is their coach. These girls were very upset. Some of them left class, but most stayed in the classroom. I passed out the test and told them that today they need not write anything more than their name, that they could take the test home and return it on Wednesday. At the end of the class, one student thanked me for the extension on the test and said that I was nice to do that.

Mr. Cedric was a young teacher. His death at age 28 was a shock and loss to the community. I am still an outsider here. I could express my sympathy but did not feel the loss the way many of my students and fellow teachers did.

The students saw that I was sympathetic. I treated them with respect and kindness. I think just listening and being sympathetic is all a teacher can do in a situation like this. One thing I’ve learned is that young people can sense your emotions and good intentions. They knew that I was concerned about them. I put their feelings first, and they responded well to that.

*A teacher should be strict about students’ behavior but permissive about their feelings. Although as an outsider Bridget could not empathize with her*