reports. The first mistake I made was not waiting for everyone to be seated before explaining my plan for the day.

I began the class by choosing two students to return the graded book reports and asking the entire class to pass up those that were due. Many of the students were either just coming into the room or otherwise out of their seats when I started doing this. As a result, the two students I had picked to pass out the reports were bumping into those who hadn’t yet taken their seats. Furthermore, the students who arrived later didn’t hear my announcement about handing in the report that was due. So I ended up having to repeat myself.

After these administrative details were out of the way, I began the review. The review went pretty well, but I hadn’t explained what was expected of them and how much time they would have to complete their task. And because of the time I’d wasted at the very beginning, I couldn’t give them the time they needed to finish.

Now I wait until everyone is seated, signal that it’s time to begin, and then say what I expect of them for that period. This way no one is confused. Everyone knows what to do. A few students will always come late or not listen to or remember all the directions, so I display a telegraphed version of the plan on a transparency. I have come to realize that good classroom management comes from planning the “how” as well as the “what” of a lesson.

Michael highlights the importance of planning for the execution as well as the content of a lesson and then communicating that plan to his students.

## Michelle’s Story

I decided to play Jeopardy! with my students so they could review the material and earn some extra points for the exam. I thought I had planned the game extremely well, but when I tried it, it flopped. A lot of things went wrong. First, I thought I could handle being the host, questioner, scorekeeper, and judge of which group had “buzzed in” first, but it was impossible for one person to take on all these roles. Second, the students were confused about the rules. Maybe I should have stopped the game and done something else.