pin him in the corner. I asked her to wait for me in my office until I could get another teacher to watch the class.

She explained that she had been working with her group when, for no reason at all, the boy wrote his name on her back with the marker. Between sobs, she told me that her ruined sweatshirt had cost her $80.

When I reminded her that the markers were dry-erase so the writing would wash off, her mood changed instantly. Then I called the boy into my office, and with a big smile on her face, she playfully called him a jerk. He apologized, adding that he had known the writing would wash off. By the time they left the office, the incident was just a big joke.

I lucked out. Had the marker been permanent, I would have had to send him to the principal’s office for deliberately provoking a fight and destroying her property. And I learned that teachers need eyes in the back of their head. Dangerous things can happen quickly, so even when their attention is focused on one thing, teachers still need to be aware of everything else that’s going on.

Arthur wisely waited to speak with the girl until he could get another teacher to watch his class. *Never leave your class unattended.* In the meantime, he removed her from the conflict and gave her time to calm down.

Both Barney and Arthur would have benefited from having eyes in the back of their head. Novice teachers, however, are usually incapable of **overlapping**, that is, of attending to two or more situations or tasks simultaneously. For example, while tutoring one student or group, they are likely to overlook the threat of disorder elsewhere. As a result, Barney and Arthur were each oblivious to the budding conflict.

You too are likely to be oblivious to developing conflicts in your classroom. You can, however, be ready with a strategy for confronting the fight. First, order the students to stop. They may be so engrossed, however, that they don’t hear you, but simultaneously flashing the lights or making a loud noise might help get their attention.

If they do not respond immediately, then call for or send a reliable student for help while you protect the safety of the others. *Your first priority is to protect the other students and yourself.* Order the other students to