After class, I told Joel how intelligent I thought he was, that I thought he was a “good kid” and that the others looked up to him. I asked him how he felt about school and his teachers. For the most part, his responses were respectful and positive. I told him that changing his behavior would do a world of good, not only for himself but as an example for the class. Both Joel and I left our conversation with a positive outlook for the rest of the year.

The next day, as I started class, Joel was up to his old tricks again, chatting at inappropriate times and misbehaving. I immediately stopped writing on the board, swiftly turned around, and gave him a hard stare. As we made eye contact, he nodded in recognition. Joel seemed to have more self-control after that, needing only a quick glance every now and then to keep him in line.

Merry explained to Joel in private how his behavior was affecting himself and others. A *private conversation* preserves the student’s or students’ dignity, thereby forestalling a defensive or hostile response. Second, she communicated the high expectations she had for him as an achiever and class leader. *Communicating high expectations* is likely to improve student behavior as well as achievement. Finally, like Steve’s proximity interference, Merry used a nonverbal signal, in her case a hard stare, to remind Joel of their discussion and presumably his commitment to improve. If students have made a commitment to a rule, especially one they had a share in creating, they are likely to correct their **misbehavior** with simply a reminder of the rule.

## Moving Seats

### Mario’s Story

I tried being the nice guy first and then the bad guy, the guy who yells, but neither role worked for me. One student in particular continued to be a perpetual talker.

Normally, he would make only a few comments that were off the wall, but on one particular day, his antics persisted. So I called his name