consequently disorder. Melissa might, therefore, improve her lesson further by providing partly or wholly constructed wheels and focusing instead on her students using the wheel to identify, justify, and predict the moon’s phases. Hands-on is not enough; the task also has to be brains-on. How could you reduce your students’ cognitive burden so as to make a task more brains-on?

## The Directions Themselves

In the first two stories that follow, the teacher devises a way to forestall her students’ frustration. The third story is about a novice teacher who needs a more promising solution than threatening to punish the entire class.

### Charlotte’s Story

Here’s why everything went wrong. The directions were so confusing (e.g., missing steps, unfamiliar terms) that even I had trouble figuring out what to do. I didn’t want to give my ninth graders this editing activity as it was written, but it was a standard activity for our English Department and had already been printed. The department is charged for each copy, so it’s cheap about printing revisions.

I spent almost the entire time explaining the directions, which generated even more questions, a million and one to be exact. So a million and one questions later, it seemed as if we were ready to begin. We formed groups, the troublemakers swearing they would work on the task maturely.

Then I saw two students blatantly copying from each other. To be honest, I myself would have been tempted. The directions were just so confusing. What to do? They knew I had seen them copying, so, of course, I had to take their papers away. But what could I give them to do instead?

More questions from other groups! So many that I forgot about the copiers, now with nothing to do, distracting those who were trying to do the task. The scene looked so weird, it was almost funny. As I remember it, the troublemakers were standing in the back left corner of the room,