# 23

## When Students Cheat

Two **novice teachers**, Angela and Elsie, each had reason to believe that a pair of students had cheated during a test, and each privately discussed her concerns with the students afterwards. Ultimately, each teacher could reasonably believe that her students would not share their answers with each other again. Yet Angela was frustrated with her outcome, whereas Elsie was pleased with hers. How did their approaches differ?

### Angela’s Story

We were halfway through the unit, and I wanted to give a test to see how well my students understood the material. I was especially watchful about students copying from each other. They frequently share answers during group work—copying isn’t an issue then—but for the test, I wanted to assess the independent work of each student. I spent most of my time watching one particular boy who was looking around a little too much. To my dismay, however, I saw the identical pattern of right and wrong answers on two other students’ papers.

Barbara and Winnie sit next to each other. Barbara is a **good student**, whereas Winnie struggles with the material. During group work, Barbara tends to share her work with the others in her group, and I have had to remind her that the others must provide input as well.

The thought that they might have cheated crushed me. It felt like a personal affront, although I understand that their behavior has little to do with me. I decided I would confront them together in my office the next day, and if they had cheated, both girls would get a zero on the test.