Also like the others, Mary worked with Debby as an advocate, not as an adversary. *Teachers are more likely to be successful with students who see the teacher as on their side.* Accordingly, Debby cooperated in response not to bribes or threats but to an understanding of her own responsibility for her future and the importance of the test. Last, Mary took advantage of the veteran teacher’s offer of a time-out, an opportunity for Debby to calm down, comparable to the time Ariana gave Linda.

None of the novice teachers seemed to take the tantrum personally. To minimize frustration and maintain your equilibrium, *resist the tendency to take your students’ misbehaviors personally.* Chris, Linda, and Debby each exploded in response to a personal problem, not to anything their teacher had done. Last, all three novice teachers used kindness rather than punishment to discipline their student. *Punishment does not deter misbehavior; it fosters resentment, not cooperation. And good discipline is achieved through a series of small kindnesses, sometimes over many weeks, if not months.*

## Note to Ariana’s and Mary’s Stories: Time-Out

Kohn (2006a) makes the distinction between a time-out that the teacher offers and one the teacher imposes. The former, the only one he recommends, is an option the student can elect in order to gain composure in a safe place. The latter, he claims, is a punishment that isolates and humiliates the student without solving the problem.

- Kohn, A. (2006a). *Beyond discipline: From compliance to community, 10th anniversary edition*. Alexandria, VA: Association for Supervision and Curriculum Development.

---

Now consider Theodore’s response to a student who asked for permission to leave the classroom.

### Theodore’s Story

The opportunity to confront my first behavior problem arose with a girl in my algebra class. I knew from previous interactions with her that she had an opposition personality. The rule was that no one could leave the