Then there is the story of defiant Debby, her teacher Mary, and one of their heated exchanges. Later, as she repented, Debby reported to another teacher that Mary was the first teacher to tell her that she had “potential.” In these and other stories, the adolescents come into focus as more than a group of misbehavers—rather, as young folk in desperate need of being managed en route to learning how to manage themselves.

As we cross-reference the stories, we see similar solutions to different problems, and the same problem with different solutions. We see surface elements of behaviors and decisions and are helped to see the underlying principles. We meet Teacher Jason, who, when faced with disruptive behavior and inattention, asked, “Do you want to be responsible for this whole class taking a test tomorrow?” Then we meet Teacher Patrick, who found himself giving his students ultimatums in response to their inattention and misbehavior; namely, if they didn’t behave, he was going to lengthen the homework or give them a quiz. Jason and Patrick were faced with the same problem of disruptive inattention and were caught in the same ineffective teacher response, invoking tests and extra work as punishment for the students’ misbehavior. We learn, however, that these are cases of two novice teachers learning very different lessons from a similar experience.

The wisdom of the book is to help the reader see what motivated the novice teachers’ responses and to see the lessons each learned. Jason understood anew that he needed to make effective plans, whereas Patrick understood that he needed to live the difference between being authoritative and authoritarian. And we see how the situations improved for both teachers and students as the teachers focused on changing the only behaviors that are, as the author says, under their control, which is to say, their own.

The stories in this book may serve all kinds of useful purposes for those involved in helping people to make themselves into teachers, by first of all helping them to put themselves in each story. Supervisors and mentor teachers may find the stories useful as a way to illuminate the principles behind the events. Those doing professional development, especially for teachers in their first years of teaching, may find the stories useful as cases for study and conversation. Teacher educators may find the book an invaluable resource for their student teachers, a well of inspiration, a way of affirming that they can, in fact, learn how to make a positive difference in the lives of young people in schools.