**Offering an Opportunity for Redemption**

## Fred’s Story

The other teachers told me Julio might be a **discipline problem**. In fact, he turned out to be a major nuisance and a source of constant noise and disruption. After a few days, I pulled him aside after class and told him that his behavior was becoming intolerable and if I saw him causing or even suspected that he was causing another disturbance, I would move him from the back to the front of the room. Julio was not listening too intently. He was focused on getting away from me.

Two days later, I was giving a quiz, and during the distribution of quiz papers, Julio kept talking to his neighbor. I told him to stop and move to the front. He reluctantly agreed until he realized the change would be permanent. Then he started yelling at me in front of the class. No, he wouldn’t sit there, he was not the only one at fault; others had been talking too. My mistake of confronting him publicly became clear, but I also had to save face. So I yelled back. He finally sat down and took the quiz.

Right before class the next day, I pulled him aside in the hall and started discussing the situation with him. Feeling he had been unjustly punished, he became extremely upset.

He had been out to test me, and only now did he realize how serious I had been. But I realized his hating me would only prompt more disruptions. So I gave him a second chance. He promised to improve his behavior, and he did.

Once Fred changed his approach, he was able to foster Julio’s cooperation.

Fred’s initial approach was to use a threat and a punishment. Using threats (or bribes) to control student behavior undermines any potential for a mutually respectful relationship. And punishment does not deter misbehavior; it fosters resentment, not cooperation.

Fred’s second approach, however, was a “working with” rather than a “doing to” approach. A “working with” rather than a “doing to” approach