had a wonderful time, everyone was quiet, and we had a productive lesson.

Jonathan adopted a management plan with a subtle but immediate signal. Like Thomas, Jonathan explained the plan to his students, including the consequences. Unlike Thomas, however, Jonathan’s consequences were temperate and ones he himself took responsibility for enforcing. Most important, Jonathan provided his students the opportunity to understand and approve the plan. *Students are likely to abide by rules if they have had the opportunity to understand and agree to them.*

## Reshaping Classroom Norms

## Craig’s Story

My last class can be fun to teach because they are lively. During my third week with them, however, I started to feel that the continuing conversations within the class were too disruptive and a challenge to my authority. Other students were beginning to call out “Be quiet.” I began getting uptight and started yelling, singling out a few who were talking.

I’m not so sure this was the correct thing to do, but I do know that those who were singled out felt it was unfair because others were talking too. They gave me looks and comments that let me know they felt this way. Because my approach was confrontational, I felt I was destroying the rapport that I had been so proud of building. I also saw that the disorder had been making me so nervous that I overreacted.

Now, instead of a confrontational approach, I do what feels more comfortable. I stop the class until the students are quiet and then present the situation as a disruption to all of us, rather than as a challenge to my authority.

Rather than force them to comply with a system of rules and punishments, Craig treated his students as autonomous members of a learning community. He fostered their moral development, willingness to