essential principle of **classroom management**: *Teachers cannot control their students’ behaviors, although they can influence and react to them. Teachers can, however, control their own behavior.* Heidi began to prepare extra work for each lesson in case she finished sooner than expected.

### Dawes’s Story

In my rush to get to school on time, I forgot to bring a copy of my lesson plan with the sheet for the activity that was to serve as both the assessment of student learning and summary for the lesson. I realized this fact about two-thirds of the way to school. In the last minutes of the drive, though, I got an idea. During the first period, I would see how much time the lesson took without the sheet, figure out something to fill that time, and then use that plan for the rest of the classes.

The first class went pretty well. The students used the extra 10 minutes to organize their assignments for the rest of the day. Thinking this was the solution to my problem, I suggested that the third-period class do the same thing. It was not a solution, however, and I was caught off guard when they used the free time to socialize, fool around, and try to sneak out of the room before the bell rang. I had overlooked the fact that unlike the first-period class, the third-period class would not be shaking off the cloak of sleep.

Unlike Heidi, Dawes expected the shortfall but failed to plan adequately for it. He came to realize that *the teacher needs to have a definite plan for every activity*.

### Chad’s Story

It’s a B-day, and I have the students for almost 2 hours. Yes, block scheduling gives you long periods of time with your students. This allows me to put together great lengthy lesson plans that engage them in group activities. But what happens when you finish your activities and you still have about 50 minutes of class time left?