in any kind of trouble, I asked him to meet me after school.  
When I played portions of the tapes for him, his eyes widened in disbelief. “Did I really say that? What could have prompted me to say such a thing?” I didn’t answer. Rather, I gave him an opportunity to reflect. I did, however, assure him that people can change their behavior and that I was sure his words did not mirror his heart. Since that day, Moe has chosen his words carefully, and although he occasionally speaks without thinking, an apology is sure to follow.  

George sought a more productive strategy than his veteran colleagues’ recommendation. He sought to “work with” rather than “do to” Moe. A “working with” rather than a “doing to” approach promotes student maturity. In the privacy of an afterschool meeting, George helped Moe recognize the remarks that were alienating his classmates. Students need specific and immediate feedback to recognize their behavior. Once Moe recognized his contribution to the problem, he had the power to solve it. *Only when you recognize your own contribution to a problem do you have any power to solve it.*  

George described Moe as socially awkward, not cruel, a perspective that predisposed him to guide rather than blame or punish Moe. As a result, Moe could see that George was on his side. *Teachers are more likely to be successful with students who see the teacher as on their side.* And last, George assured Moe that he could change. *The promise of redemption is a strong motivator.*  

George fostered Moe’s social development. How could you foster the social development of one of your students?  

**Note: Social Skills Training**  

Students like Moe are often unaware of how their behavior undermines their social acceptance and how they can behave otherwise. In most cases, they benefit from social skills training.  

- Coie, J., Underwood, M., & Lochman, J. (1991). Programmatic intervention with aggressive children in the school setting. In D. Pepler & K. Rubin (Eds.), *The development and treatment of childhood aggression* (pp. 389–410). Hillsdale, NJ: Erlbaum.