cooperate, and self-control by having them consider how their behavior was affecting others. That is, he used a “working with” rather than a “doing to” approach to instill norms of social responsibility. A “working with” rather than a “doing to” approach promotes student maturity.

## Eliza’s Story

My sixth-period class was the worst. No matter what I tried, I couldn’t get them to stop talking. I tried assigning lunch detention, standing silent and looking stern, flashing the lights on and off, and finally one day, I tried yelling at them to be quiet. Nothing worked. At some point during each lesson, the noise would swell to an uproar. I could not understand why this class was so much more difficult than the others.

Yelling had been my last resort. Since that didn’t work, I was baffled about what to do next. After brainstorming for a few days, I decided that I would treat them exactly as they had been treating me. Whenever one of the disruptive students would ask me a question or talk to me, I would interrupt or ignore him or her. I tried this for a couple of days with no reaction. On the third day, however, I got a reaction.

Kara raised her hand and asked, “Why are you being so mean to us?”

I replied that I was not trying to be mean, that I was just tired of the way I was being treated. I reviewed the single rule I had given them at the beginning of the year, that I would treat them with politeness and respect and that I expected the same in return. I told them that I had not been treated with politeness and respect and that their rudeness had rubbed off on me.

The silence was palpable. I stood there squarely so they could think about what I had just said. Then I asked them whether they liked the way I had been treating them for the past few days. Their answer was a unanimous no. Kara then apologized for the way she had been treating me, and I accepted her apology.

I then asked the class whether we could start from the beginning and treat each other with politeness and respect. Once again, their response