occupies an urgent place in conversation for them, but when there is little practice of management principles, nothing else of teaching seems more urgent to discuss. For novice teachers who find themselves in that phase, this quick source of guidance and suggestions will be a much-appreciated support, a place to go at the end of a tough day for some immediate ideas about how to approach seventh period tomorrow.

This book is not a list of strategies, a “What to Do When Times are Bad” list, although there is an extensive list of things teachers can try. Rather, it is a series of cases where novice teachers each describe and then reflect on their classroom situation. Through reflection, they figure out what big-picture problem they are wrestling with and how to respond to it. It is through this deep awareness of their own story that they develop. Teacher Jenny says, “Looking back, I see that I had been under the impression that it was my fault the students were acting out. … So I need to work on strategies to advance the lesson and avoid taking their misbehaviors personally.” It is one thing for teacher educators and mentors to advise a novice teacher to resist taking students’ misbehaviors personally; it is another for Jenny herself to realize that she was not only taking them personally but also taking the blame. Now she may be ready to address the situation, not the shortcomings of her students.

Crucial to these stories, of course, is the back story of the teacher preparation coursework in which the novice teachers learned about and discussed the theoretical groundings for solving such problems. In their stories, they are coming to understand these groundings well enough to call on them during their work with adolescents. Professor Zuckerman uses their stories to make the practical knowledge of teaching explicit in the realm of the theoretical and to enable other novice teachers to uncover what is really there.

The stories are pithy and poignant, as classroom stories always are. For example, Teacher Dina writes of the misbehavior in her classroom that “disorder spreads like a California wild-fire.” For another, what teacher has not had Leah’s experience: “The persistent goal of my seventh-period beauties seemed to be to test my willingness to tolerate distractions.” Teacher Ariana tells how a student noisily came into class late. Ariana asked her several times to sit down quietly, the student responding to the last request with a loud “f—off!” But the next day, the student came in to explain to Ariana and to apologize to her.