Was I unprepared for class? Wasn’t my jigsaw/expert group/concept map/group work enough? All was going great until I looked up at the clock and realized I still had about 50 minutes of class time remaining. I started to pace the room to jog my brain to generate ideas about how to keep them busy for another 50 minutes. Well, soon they all started to filter back to their assigned seats, and I was frantically trying to come up with a follow-up activity. My so-called great lesson would quickly become a disaster if I didn’t come up with something fast. As I glanced around the room, my eyes fell upon the video collection in the back cabinet. I’m a genius. I’ll show a video. What a great idea! Thank heavens for VCRs and TVs.

Chad, like Heidi, did not expect the shortfall, but in his case, it was substantial, due to errors more in the planning than the execution of his lesson. No novice can predict the amount of time an activity in a given class will take, but when class periods are longer, timing errors compound.

For those substantial timing errors (or when administrators have to extend a class period, sometimes indefinitely), you need something more strategic than a collection of videos. You need an appealing activity, one you could adapt to any time frame and realize with little or no preparation and few materials, regardless of the day’s topic. Have the students create something from an imaginative point of view! It could be a story, poster, skit, song, TV commercial, newspaper article, or even a filmstrip about the topic.

I remember visiting a student biology teacher in a New York City public high school. Her topic for the day was the female reproductive system. Having planned the activity for a 40-minute lesson, she could just as easily have expanded it to fit a longer time frame. She divided her students into groups, gave them 20 minutes, and challenged each group to come up with a 2-minute presentation to explain the function of any part of the female reproductive system. She provided her students with nothing more than the ordinary materials you would expect to find in a classroom: textbooks, markers, poster paper, composition paper, drawing paper, pencils, and erasers. Twenty minutes later, everyone was eager to see the presentations.

I shall never forget one presentation, a skit from the point of view of an ovum. Here was a 16-year-old boy doing repeated somersaults across the