He just smiled. He had already realized the extent of his luck and thanked me for my understanding. I believe that in this kind of situation, showing compassion is more important than making a scene over a minor offense.

Bardo understood and accepted the rule. He probably had just forgotten to turn off his phone. The beep alone was sufficient notice that he had violated the rule and disrupted the presentation, and with Breeanne’s look, that he was caught red-handed and could be punished. But Breeanne approached him with compassion, not anger, with a “working with” rather than a “doing to” attitude. A “working with” rather than a “doing to” approach promotes student maturity.

Bardo saw that Breeanne was on his side. Teachers are more likely to be successful with students who see the teacher as on their side. Fortunately for both, the principal was also on his side. She too understood that good discipline is achieved only through repeated kindnesses.

How should Breeanne have responded if Bardo’s cell phone had been a recurring distraction? If he understood and accepted the rule that the cell phone needs to be turned off during class, then the issue would still be his forgetfulness rather than his defiance. But given its recurrence, he would need to take responsibility for the problem explicitly; that is, he would need to formulate a plan to prevent the beeps once and for all and to make a commitment to abide by that plan. Only if he failed to take responsibility would Breeanne have to offer him a choice with express consequences in accordance with the school policy.

## Note to Breeanne’s Story: Minor Misbehavior

A teacher needs to weigh the cost of intervening against the cost of the **misbehavior**. Minor rule violations are often better ignored, at least temporarily, so as not to disrupt an ongoing lesson. Ignore behaviors that hardly interfere with teaching or learning. A teacher needs to attend immediately to minor rule violations, however, when the misbehavior occurs repeatedly, intensifies, or seems about to spread.

- Good, T. L., & Brophy, J. E. (2008). *Looking in classrooms* (10th ed.). Boston: Pearson.