cultivate a teacher–student relationship instead of a buddy–buddy relationship.

Jedd, when telling us that some of his students were not taking their work seriously, said, “Unfortunately, it [the root of the problem] was my own behavior.” I would have liked to respond to Jedd, “Fortunately, it was your own behavior, and even more fortunately, you realize it.” Rather than blame his students for being silly or rude, he recognized his own contribution to the problem, and as a remedy, upheld his strict standards. *Only when you recognize your own contribution to a problem do you have any power to solve it.*

## Connor’s Story

Before I began student teaching, I spent a week observing my cooperating teacher’s lessons. I would sit in the back of the room with two students, Evan and Jake. During that week, we became friends, talking before and after class about cars, the newest TV programs, and current events.

Finally, I began teaching the class. On the very first day, I was giving a brief lecture. The class was quiet and attentive except for Evan and Jake. I tolerated their chatter for a while but then decided to say something.

“Evan! Jake!”

They looked up at me with grins on their faces.

“The two of you are making me look like a fool. Show me the same respect everyone else is.”

Their grins folded into frowns.

While finishing the lesson, I realized that Evan and Jake had considered me a buddy, one who wouldn’t mind their inattentiveness. And I realized that my scolding may have alienated them.

Evan and Jake are reasonable kids. So I asked them to stay after class and talk with me. I suppose they expected a grilling. They were surprised when I apologized for barking at them. They saw, however, that I needed their cooperation. I actually said, “I need your help.” Since then, I have had no problem.