This second seat change has worked. Guy no longer has an audience, and while I sometimes feel sorry for him—for only a fleeting moment— I realize that a seating arrangement affects the way a student behaves.

Dawn concentrated on only half the problem, stabilizing the learning environment. After Guy’s first seat change, she did not consider any other strategies to help him focus on the lesson. As is characteristic of a novice teacher, she was concerned more with her teaching than her students’ learning. How could Dawn have worked with Guy so as to integrate him into whole-class learning activities?

## Abby’s Story

Ivan monopolizes the class’s time to tell me whether or not he’s done his homework. He does poorly in school and relies on his homework to pass his courses. I have told him that doing the class work is just as (if not more) important as doing the homework. Nevertheless, he continues to ask about his homework even after I have calmly explained the importance of his concentrating on the task at hand.

When he persisted one day in following me around and asking me about his homework, I got angry, raised my voice, and threatened to send him to the office. I know this was not the right thing to do, but I don’t know how to make him realize the importance of attending to his class work.

Abby’s problem is somewhat different from the others. Ivan does not disrupt the class directly. Instead, he seeks attention from her alone, distracting her and wasting his own time. How can Abby help both Ivan and herself?

