papers from each class. So my problem was how to get them to take their homework seriously.

I decided to adopt a strategy a colleague of mine used. He made his students accountable by having them explain in a letter why they didn’t do their homework. From there, he would decide whether he would excuse them, give them an extension to complete the assignment, or speak to their parent or guidance counselor.

Thinking about something similar for my own classroom, I came up with a Homework Contract that would require the students to write down why they didn’t do the assignment and then sign the document. The first day, many of my students were displeased with this new procedure. They didn’t like the idea that they would be accountable for their missing assignments. The day after the Homework Contract went into effect, however, almost all my students completed and handed in their homework. Since I instituted the routine, I’ve received most of the homework most of the time.

Here is the form each student must sign:

**WARNING**

You have not done your homework, but you are still being held accountable!

You will not be permitted to leave this classroom without completing this form. Remember, homework is crucial to your success in this class.

Too many missing homework assignments will result in a phone call or letter home and a notice to your guidance counselor.

In the space below, please write out your reason for not completing the assignment.

___________________________

___________________________