got home, I needed a 3-hour nap. As much as the students enjoyed the lecture, I knew it would be impossible for me to perform like that regularly. So I vowed to plan more activities for the students to do, especially during our double-period classes.

I planned a test for the first part of the next double period and an informal group activity for the second part. I posted the directions for the activity on the board and, before the test, explained them briefly. I anticipated a problem, however. How could I, during our customary break after 40 minutes, prevent the sharing of test answers with those who had yet to finish the test? So I stated that students could not take their break until they had finished and handed in their test.

The transition between the test and the activity went smoothly, and, relieved to be doing something relaxing after the test, most students doing the activity were considerate of those still working on the test.

Ira not only balanced the activities for his double period by providing a relaxing one to follow an intense one, but, just as important, he planned for the transition between them as well. How could you balance your activities and plan for the transition between them?

## Jason’s Story

We got through the do-now quickly and began going over the directions for groups to dramatize some scenes from Hamlet. The noise became thunderous. So I asked, “Eric, would you like to take the rest of this period to talk to Kelly? Why don’t we forget about this activity, and all of you can talk to your friends for the rest of the period while I make a test for this class to take tomorrow? Does that sound good?” Their response to this proposal was a chorus of disapproval. I continued with the directions, but occasionally I still had to remind them that I could schedule a test for tomorrow.

During the activity, I needed to call their attention to some specific details, and it was difficult to get everyone quiet. I called a student by name and asked him to be quiet. As soon as I looked elsewhere, he began talking again. I responded, “Joe, do you want to be responsible for the whole class taking a test tomorrow? Okay then, be quiet for a