Managing the behavior of a disruptive student is necessarily a long-range undertaking, requiring weeks if not months to establish a mutually respectful relationship. Which strategies or combinations of strategies in these eight stories would be likely to promote long-range success for you?

## Note to Steve’s and Lenora’s Stories: Proximity Interference

Levin and Nolan (2007) recommend using proximity interference when signal interference doesn’t work, that is, when the disruptive student does not respond to eye contact, the teacher’s pointing, or other discreet but definite signals. If proximity interference does not curb the misbehavior, then they recommend touch interference, the next step in their hierarchy of interventions.

- Levin, J., & Nolan, J. F. (2007). *Principles of classroom management: A professional decision-making model* (5th ed.). Boston: Allyn & Bacon.

## Making a Threat

### Barry’s Story

Today I had a problem while giving a test. I repeatedly asked for quiet for those students still working. It felt like a slap in the face when a few students ignored my request. So I calmly stated that the next person to talk would receive a zero. Not one second later, a student decided to test whether I had the resolve to follow through. He turned around in his seat and started talking to another student. So I stated in a firm but calm voice, “Charles, zero. Please give me your test.” He did so, and I marked a zero on his test. Most of the class could not believe what I had done.

I really had not directed my earlier requests for quiet toward Charles. Other students had been talking. His blatant disregard of my order, however, forced me to give him the zero. I had backed myself into a corner. If I had not handed out the zero, the talking would have continued, and it would have disrupted other students. I had taken a