she exercised her newly claimed power by imposing a seating chart. In addition, she instituted a daily **routine**, the do-now, to structure the beginning of each lesson. The do-now must be an activity that requires students to sit down and take out their notebook, perhaps their textbook, and a pencil or pen. Once she saw herself as a manager, Casey could create a **proactive management strategy** such as the do-now.

## Toward a Systematic Management Plan

### Leah’s Story

The persistent goal of my seventh-period beauties seemed to be to test my willingness to tolerate distractions. This class is a hyperactive, bright, and social bunch of 35 busy bees who love to talk, talk, talk. How to manage these wild wonders became my 3:00 a.m. obsession. So, yes, I have had a lot of experience with trial and error, and, yes, with failure as well. I found out quickly that asking certain kids nicely to please stop talking was totally ineffective and that I would need other ways of dealing with them.

Veterans advised me that I couldn’t just be nice to them, that I would have to be a dictator. Well, that’s just not who I am. How could I still be nice without having to tolerate their constant disruptions? I wrestled with this question for an entire weekend. Here’s what I decided to do:

First, I changed their seats. Too many yakkers were sitting together. Second, I worked to reduce the **dead time** by preparing and organizing the lesson better. Students just wouldn’t have time to yak. Third, I planned more active learning opportunities, using their hyperactivity to my advantage. I have them working in groups since they love to flap their jaws.

Yes, I still lose my patience with them. That will be the case no matter how long I teach, but I don’t have to be mean or raise my voice to reduce the number of distractions and get them to cooperate.

First, Leah realized that she had to be comfortable with her management plan. Only then could she uphold it consistently. Second, like Casey, she