“Sure. No problem.”

And with that, the class began and went smoothly. She contributed to the discussion by raising her hand and offering insightful comments and thoughtful questions.

Like Gary with Mike and Clark with Anthony, Scott had a private conversation with Gloria, one in which she made a commitment to control herself. How long could Scott expect her to abide by her commitment? Not long, but should her outbursts continue, he can now remind her of her commitment with a simple signal, such as staring at her and shaking his head. If students have made a commitment to a rule, especially one they had a share in creating, they are likely to correct their misbehavior with simply a reminder of the rule. Moreover, Scott can commend her from time to time as her self-control improves.

Scott could also use a **proactive management strategy**. He can reduce the time the class spends on whole-class learning activities, such as lectures and **recitations**, and increase the time spent in small groups. Whenever you have some students monopolizing the class’s time, you need to decentralize instruction. Gloria would be less likely to disrupt in a small group, and if she did, her impact would be restricted to that smaller audience.

## Dawn’s Story

I first moved Guy to the front of the room so he could focus on the lesson. However, this change was a mistake. He started to distract the others by muttering, calling out, making faces, and goofing off. He was in his glory while I had to compete with him for the class’s attention.

Then I remembered stories about boys in school, the stories we’ve all heard, how some boys demand so much attention that the other students, especially the girls, are ignored. “Oh, no,” I thought. “I have fallen into the trap!” So after a few days of his distractions, I calmly and sweetly told him that he would be sitting in another seat, this time in the very back of the classroom, beyond the last row.