I kept the discussion mature while letting them know that they can still ask me any question and get an answer.

Natalie’s challenge was to create a socially and psychologically safe environment for her students to study human reproduction. Unlike Stephanie, but like Cynthia, she foresaw the threat. Accordingly, in advance of her lesson, she planned the rules and routine for appropriate communication, discussed and justified them with her students, and gave them the opportunity to understand and agree to them. **Students are likely to abide by rules if they have had the opportunity to understand and agree to them.**

Natalie does not explain how she helped her students construct an appropriately worded question privately without interrupting her lesson and introducing **dead time**. One approach Natalie could have used was to give each of her students a few index cards at the outset and invite them, as the lesson progressed, to write down their emerging questions. She could then collect, shuffle, and rephrase the questions as necessary. The advantages of such an approach would be not only to avoid dead time but to enable her students to ask their questions anonymously.

Stephanie, Cynthia, and Natalie each calmly explained and justified their expectations to their students. Second, they each involved and expected to continue involving their students in appealing activities, such as using novel materials or relating a concept to everyday life. **Activities in which students can work together, choose their task, be creative, use novel materials, imagine a novel situation, or relate a concept to everyday life appeal to students.** Because of their approaches to teaching their particular subject matter, their students willingly cooperated with their rules and routines.

How do you provide for your students’ physical, social, and psychological safety?

## Note: Safety

Safety is a basic human need (Maslow, 1968). Accordingly, to take the risks necessary to learn, students must feel physically, socially, and psychologically safe in the classroom.