**Discipline Problem** A problem caused by behavior the teacher regards as competing with, disrupting, or threatening to disrupt the lesson. P

**Do-Now** A daily routine consisting of an activity each student is expected to work on independently for the first few minutes upon entering the classroom so as to get, without the teacher’s supervision and even before the bell rings, every student ready to work. 1, 2, 6, 7, 9, 10, 19

**Good Student** A student who understands and accepts classroom rules as reasonable, whose infractions are occasional at most and are the result of forgetfulness or lapses in self-control rather than defiance. 14

**Lesson Execution Problem** A problem caused by the teacher’s error in planning, preparing, or executing the lesson. P

**Logical Consequence** A reasonable outcome the teacher imposes that is directly related to the misbehavior. 9

**Mastery Learning** An instructional approach in which students are each given the time and support to master a set of concepts or skills at their current academic level before progressing to the next level. 20

**Misbehavior** Behavior the teacher regards as competing with, disrupting, or threatening to disrupt the lesson. P, 29, C

**Novice Teacher** A teacher with fewer than 3 years of teaching experience. P, 1, 10, 16, 24, 25, C

**Overlapping** A teacher’s attending to two or more situations or tasks simultaneously. 24, C

**Physically Safe Learning Environment** An environment in which the teacher models and the students practice techniques to protect themselves, each other, and the environment from physical harm. 11

**Planned Ignoring** A strategy in which the teacher notices a behavior but intentionally and completely ignores it. 27