likely to erupt with anger and abuse in response to any demand or reprimand. For interventions for revenge-seeking students, see the following:

- Charles, C. M. (2002). *Building classroom discipline* (7th ed.). Boston: Allyn & Bacon.
- Nelson, J. (1987). *Positive discipline*. New York: Ballantine.

## Guadalupe’s Story

The first day we used microscopes in my seventh-grade class, I made a point of stating the rules. In particular, I emphasized the importance of always carrying a microscope with two hands. No sooner had I made the point—more than once in fact—than I saw a student carrying his with one hand. I called out, “Two hands, Lloyd,” to remind him of the rule. Lloyd became surly and argumentative about the rule.

I don’t argue with students, so I simply repeated the rule, expecting to end the incident. I had no intention of giving him a punishment since this was our first day using the microscopes. But he continued to argue with me, making excuses for using only one hand, saying that his desk was close to the shelf where the microscopes are stored. I asked him to stop arguing with me.

But he continued, this time muttering, “This is so stupid.” So I gave him a lunch detention for being disrespectful.

“Well, I’m not going.”

I ignored his comment, figuring he was just showboating and if I didn’t give him any more attention, I could continue my class. When I gave him the lunch detention slip, however, he repeated that he wouldn’t show up. I ignored his statement. In fact, I was probably more lenient with him than other teachers would have been.

When he didn’t go to lunch detention, I had to refer him to the assistant principal for insubordination. There I learned that he has been slipping academically and socially and is in the same sort of trouble with his other teachers.

The assistant principal had him apologize, but the apology, hardly sincere, was certainly no solution to Lloyd’s misbehavior. I am not satisfied with the outcome even though I followed the school’s procedure for such a situation.