down and take out their notebook, perhaps their textbook, and a pencil or pen.

### Mark’s Story

The times during class when I would have the most trouble were at the start of each lesson and whenever I would ask the students to take out a book, calculator, or their homework. These times seemed to be equivalent to my saying, “Feel free to discuss your weekend plans with your friends.”

But then I came up with a single solution to both problems. I began to use a two-part do-now. First, I give them a list of vocabulary words for that day’s lesson and they use their textbook to write a definition for each word. Second, I give them a list of the materials they’ll need to have ready for the lesson.

This expanded do-now has helped me in a few ways. First, it gets the students involved in quiet seatwork as soon as they enter the classroom. Second, they are not repeatedly creating a disturbance rummaging through their backpacks. All their materials are at hand right from the start. Third, I can see that when they start gathering their materials, they are finished with their vocabulary words. Then I know it’s almost time for me to begin.

Mark used the same kind of do-now for every lesson. Some teachers regularly use a set of vocabulary words, either to unscramble or spot in a computer-generated word-find puzzle. Then the students write the definition of each word using their textbook as a reference. Other teachers generate a set of multiple-choice questions to review the previous lesson. After choosing an answer, the students then write a justification for their answer. No matter what 3- to 5-minute activity or activities you regularly use for your do-now, your students should be able to find the written directions themselves, in the same place every day, as they enter your classroom. What kinds of do-now activities could you make up?

### Jodi’s Story