None of Amy’s students were morally opposed to doing the dissection. Some, however, could have been. How would you have responded to a student’s moral opposition?

## Mandy’s Story

My clothing construction students were about to pin their pattern to their fabric and transfer the construction marks. The students were working in pairs. I distributed to each pair a bin with pins, a pin cushion, shears, tracing paper, and a tracing wheel, and I handed each pair a yardstick. Once they got their materials, I explained how to use them. The first class went fairly well, except for the fact that I spoke too quickly, so the students missed some of the directions. Because of this, I ended up answering a lot of extra questions. That was the first lesson I learned that day, to speak slowly. Otherwise, the pairs completed the activity successfully and enjoyed doing it.

Then came the second class. Once again, I distributed the materials to minimize student traffic. But this time, “weapons” and “athletic gear” emerged. Before I knew it, a couple of “sword fights” were on one side of the room and some “hockey games” on the other. Right then I knew this activity was going to be a disaster.

I had to get their attention quickly so I let out an ear-piercing whistle. Everyone stopped immediately. Next, I told them that those who could not use the equipment properly would have to complete the activity during lunch. That was the second lesson I learned that day, that they all want to have lunch with their friends. By the time I was ready to wrap up the lesson, all the pairs had finished the activity successfully.

Unlike Amy, Mandy averted chaos by immediately stopping the class with a brief but intrusive signal. Better yet, the signal was nonverbal. *Nonverbal signals are better than verbal signals because they do not provoke defensive arguments or hostile confrontations.* Then a warning to those who would misuse the materials gave her students the opportunity to control their own behavior. *Rather than impose control, a teacher should foster students’ self-control.* Aside from the temperate but disagreeable consequence, her warning worked because her students wanted to