protective wear I had on. After seeing a flower shatter into pieces after being lowered into the liquid nitrogen and then smacked on the tabletop, the students began to understand the danger and obeyed the safety rules.

After the lesson was over, the bell rang, and most of the students moved past the demonstration table staying a safe distance from the liquid nitrogen. John, however, tried to come close to the table. Thinking of his safety, I blocked him by standing between him and the table as I escorted him to the door and chatted with him about how neat the experiment was.

Cynthia had explained the safety precautions in advance. Even so, she was alert to a challenge and responded by redirecting John’s attention while thwarting his approach. Her intervention was swift but discreet, no more intrusive than necessary to neutralize the threat. Although she chatted with him about the experiment, her blocking him and escorting him to the door were nonverbal responses to his challenge. **Nonverbal interventions are better than verbal interventions because they do not provoke defensive arguments or hostile confrontations.**

## Natalie’s Story

As a physical education and health teacher, I am teaching my students about human reproduction. I knew this was going to be a challenging topic because of my students’ misconceptions and the improper terms they use for the parts of the male and female reproductive systems. The students are already dealing with issues of pregnancy and sexually transmitted diseases, so I wanted them to take this lesson seriously.

Prior to beginning the lesson, I expressed my concern and hope that we could get through the lesson without inappropriate language and jokes. I also told them that they were welcome to ask any question as long as it is phrased in a manner appropriate to the classroom. If they had trouble phrasing the question, they could ask me privately, and I would phrase it appropriately for them.

My students agreed and have been trying hard to be mature in dealing with human reproduction. By expressing my concern and explaining my boundary beforehand and having them agree to my terms,