intend to, and I am sorry for not having thought more carefully before I spoke.

*Don’t be afraid to admit your mistakes.*

## Shannon’s Story

As a novice teacher, I have had many classroom management issues. Still, one story stands out in my mind. One boy in particular tried to get away with everything and really grated on my nerves. I had a hard time with him because I couldn’t stomach his obnoxious attitude! But in the beginning, I had ignored his behavior. I know that wasn’t the best solution, but that was all I could do without saying something I might regret later.

Just as I started wondering what to do about him, he happened to be absent for a stretch, giving me the opportunity to establish myself with the others. Soon I became comfortable with my classes, and my confidence increased. So when he returned, I was ready for him.

He began the class by hanging over my shoulder while I was helping another student. As I looked up at him, I said, “Can I help you?”

“I’ll take this side of the classroom, you take the other side, and we’ll both help the students,” he replied.

Looking at him directly, I said, “You’ve been absent for a long time and have a lot of work to make up.”

“Well, that is why I’m here. I’m waiting for you to tell me what to do.”

I then told him that all he had needed to do was ask me that in the first place. But he promptly replied, “Look, you’re the woman, and I’m the man, and the woman follows the orders of the man.”

Well, as soon as those words came out of his mouth, I put my foot down. I sternly told him that I didn’t need to tolerate his impudence and I wouldn’t tolerate it. If he didn’t want to work and be in this class, then he could leave now and not come back because I didn’t have a problem with his not being there.

Amazingly, my response worked. His eyes popped out of his head, and he immediately said he wanted to do his work and would I please