The student teachers who contributed the stories for this book were preparing to teach in a New York State secondary school. They wrote their stories during their fifth week of teaching in either a rural, suburban, or urban public middle, junior high, or senior high school. Their stories are arranged in chapters according to the kind of problem they each addressed so readers can scan the Table of Contents for a chapter about their own problem.

The chapters are grouped according to whether the problem is a **lesson execution problem** or a **discipline problem**. Teachers’ errors cause lesson execution problems. For example, an error in planning, preparing, or executing a lesson can cause directions to be confusing, activities to run short of the allotted time, or lessons to be boring. Each kind of lesson execution problem is assigned to one of the **13 chapters** in **Part I**.

On the other hand, **misbehavior**, behavior the teacher regards as competing with, disrupting, or threatening to disrupt the lesson, can cause a discipline problem. Misbehaviors typically involve one or a few students rather than the entire class. Examples in this book include one or a few students violating a rule, talking a lot, or even cheating, fighting, having a tantrum, or **bullying** another student. Each kind of discipline problem is assigned to one of the **16 chapters** in **Part II**.

Although no clear line divides a lesson execution problem from a discipline problem, and certainly one can exacerbate if not provoke the other, solving a lesson execution problem is simpler than solving a discipline problem. To solve a lesson execution problem, a teacher needs to change only his or her own behavior. On the other hand, treating misbehavior requires effecting a change in at least one student’s behavior and often the teacher’s as well. The purpose of this book is to help novice teachers effect such changes by providing them, through the stories of other novice teachers, an opportunity to reflect on and expand their own repertoire of classroom management strategies.

## Perspectives on Novice Teachers

Aside from my own perspective on novice teachers, I have relied on the work of Robert V. Bullough, Jr., author of *First-Year Teacher: A Case Study*. Through his compassionate portrayal of Kerrie, a promising first-year middle school teacher, the reader shares in the struggles, quandaries,