Grabe, M. (1985). Attributions in a mastery instructional system: Is an emphasis on effort harmful? *Contemporary Educational Psychology*, 10, 113–126.

Grosser, P. (1964). *How to use the fine art of questioning*. Valley Stream, NY: Teachers Practical Press.

Jones, F. (1992). *Positive classroom discipline*. New York: McGraw-Hill.

Jones, V., & Jones, L. (2001). *Comprehensive classroom management: Creating communities of support and solving problems* (6th ed.). Boston: Allyn & Bacon.

Kohlberg, L. (1969). *Stages in the development of moral thought and action*. New York: Holt, Rinehart & Winston.

Kohn, A. (2006a). *Beyond discipline: From compliance to community, 10th anniversary edition*. Alexandria, VA: Association for Supervision and Curriculum Development.

Kohn, A. (2006b). *The homework myth: Why our kids get too much of a bad thing*. Cambridge, MA: Da Capo Press.

Kounin, J. S. (1970). *Discipline and group management in classrooms*. New York: Holt, Rinehart & Winston.

Levin, J., & Nolan, J. F. (2007). *Principles of classroom management: A professional decision-making model* (5th ed.). Boston: Allyn & Bacon.

Levin, J., & Shanken-Kaye, J. (2002). *From disrupter to achiever: Creating successful learning environments for the self-control classroom*. Dubuque, IA: Kendall/Hunt.

Maslow, A. (1968). *Toward a psychology of being*. New York: Van Nostrand.

Nelson, J. (1987). *Positive discipline*. New York: Ballantine.

Novak, J. D. (1998). *Learning, creating, and using knowledge: Concept maps as facilitative tools in schools and corporations*. Mahwah, NJ: Erlbaum.

Novak, J. D., & Gowin, D. B. (1984). *Learning how to learn*. New York: Cambridge University Press.

Piaget, J. (1965). *The moral judgment of the child*. New York: Free Press.

Rowe, M. B. (1986). Wait time: Slowing down may be a way of speeding up! *Journal of Teacher Education*, 37(1), 43–50.

Saphier, J., & Gower, R. (1982). *The skillful teacher*. Carlisle, MA: Research for Better Teaching.

Sullivan, K., Cleary, M., & Sullivan, G. (2004). *Bullying in secondary schools: What it looks like and how to manage it*. London: Chapman.

Tanner, L. N. (1978). *Classroom discipline for effective teaching and learning*. New York: Holt, Rinehart & Winston.

Tobin, K. (1990). *Metaphors and images in teaching* (What Research Says to the Science and Mathematics Teacher, No. 5). Perth, Western Australia: Curtin University of Technology, The Key Centre for School Science and Mathematics.

Vygotsky, L. (1962). *Thought and language*. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.

