Nonverbal signals also do not interrupt the flow of the lesson, and they invite the students to control their own behavior. Perhaps most important, rather than having to improvise under pressure, she began to plan deliberately for the inevitable Friday afternoons.

Dina decided to replace her PowerPoint lecture with her students creating and presenting their own slides. She would divide the class into six groups, one for each simple machine, and have each group create two transparencies, one featuring the parts of its simple machine and the other featuring examples from everyday life. Keeping her initial 5-minute review of the week’s lessons, she would then use about 15 minutes for her students to create the transparencies, 15 minutes for their presenting them, and 5 minutes for summarizing and assessing the lesson with the worksheet.

How would you transform a passive lesson into an active one?

## Note to Dina’s Story: Nonverbal Interventions

For a discussion of nonverbal interventions, especially for setting limits on student behavior, see Jones (1992).

- Jones, F. (1992). *Positive classroom discipline*. New York: McGraw-Hill.

## Jonathan’s Story

How noisy is too noisy for you? My tolerance for noise was higher than all the teachers I observed and assisted. But perhaps that was because I was too lenient with the students. The fact is that in some instances their behavior annoyed even me. So here’s the technique my mentor suggested:

I quietly write the student’s name on the board when he or she talks. The second time I write the student’s name, he or she has detention with me. It sounded like a good idea so I tried it out.

I told the students what I was going to do, and they agreed that it was a reasonable thing to do. After that, everything worked out well. I