Second, whereas a list embodies **theoretical knowledge**, a story embodies **practical knowledge**. Novice teachers already have the theoretical knowledge to teach. That’s the knowledge they constructed during their teacher preparation coursework, the knowledge expressed in generalizations. What they need is practical knowledge, that is, experiential knowledge, the knowledge that is bound up in the perception of details, the knowledge that is concrete and directly applicable to practice. By attending to others’ stories about teaching, novice teachers transform their theoretical knowledge into practical knowledge. That’s why stories are the next best thing to experience.

Why stories about novice teachers? Because the knowledge base of a novice is different from that of an expert. Not only do their respective repertoires of strategic knowledge differ, but the way they each perceive and define a problem differs as well. Accordingly, the strategies that a seasoned teacher would use and recommend are not necessarily helpful to a novice teacher, who cannot yet identify the dynamics within a classroom as the seasoned teacher does. In short, novice teachers need their own strategies to solve their own problems.

Second, novice teachers’ stories help other novice teachers construct more realistic expectations about managing a classroom. Novice teachers enter the classroom with unrealistic optimism, believing their own personal attributes will shield them from the management problems that vex their peers. The harsh reality of the classroom, however, soon transforms their self-assurance into self-doubt, even shame. Consequently, rather than share their experiences, they retreat into professional isolation. Other novice teachers’ stories confirm their experiences, restore their confidence, perhaps even their sense of humor, and help them to construct, along with practical knowledge, realistic expectations for managing their own classroom.

And why stories about student teachers? Because they are the rank novices. If a student teacher can identify a problem, formulate a strategy, and execute that strategy effectively enough at least to alleviate the problem even temporarily, then presumably another novice teacher with the same problem could recognize the correspondence and execute that same strategy. Thus the stories of other novice teachers, in particular those student teachers who solved a classroom management problem, are the best source of management strategies for another novice teacher.