**Planning for the Content** Refers to the teacher’s defining the lesson objective and then devising a set of activities in which the students can construct the knowledge in that objective and then, along with the teacher, assess whether they have constructed the knowledge as intended. 2

**Planning for the Execution** Refers to the teacher’s determining how (and sometimes when) during a lesson to take attendance, divide the students into groups, distribute and collect materials, give directions, and so forth. 2

**Practical Knowledge** Experiential knowledge, the knowledge that is bound up in the perception of details, the knowledge that is concrete and directly applicable to practice. P

**Proactive Management Strategy** A strategy to prevent a threat to or actual breach of order. 18, C

**Proximity Interference** The teacher’s moving toward the source of disruption without interrupting the lesson. 17

**Reactive Management Strategy** A strategy designed to stop or punish a threat to or actual breach of order. 18, C

**Recitation** A series of teacher questions, each followed by a student’s answer, often resulting in a monotonous stream of trivial questions, which, at any one time, calls for the participation of only one student. 3, 8, 12, 15, 18, 27

**Revenge-Seeking Students** Students who, feeling that they have no control over their environment and that others disregard them and treat them unfairly, are likely to erupt with anger and abuse in response to a teacher’s demand or reprimand. 25

**Routine** A set of procedures (with implicit behavioral expectations) to execute a regular classroom activity. 2, 9, 10, 11, C

**Signal Interference** A nonverbal intervention, such as eye contact or other gesture, that discreetly communicates to the student that the behavior is inappropriate. 17