# 3

## When Your Lesson Is Boring

Boring lessons generate inattentiveness, indifference, and ultimately hostility. Two teachers realized their lessons were boring, made a change, and enjoyed the added benefit of a better relationship with their students. On the other hand, a third teacher had an activity he thought would be boring. Instead it turned out to be exciting. Why was his activity exciting?

### Marty’s Story

The topic in my honors class was basic chemistry. The lecture portion was about atoms, elements, and the Periodic Table. Then I planned to give the students a puzzle to become familiar with using the table.

I had been feeling frustrated. I wanted to have more rapport with my students and break free from the monotony of my lessons. I had gotten to the point of explaining the diatomic elements. The mnemonic I used was HOFBrINCl. The presentation was becoming deadly, to my mind soporific. The time had come for a change.

I went to the board and drew a picture of “Dr. HOFBrINCl.” It took a few beats for the students to get the gag. Then the class started laughing. The next thing I knew, they were criticizing the poor doctor—his eyes were too beady—and they gave him glasses and a bit of a face-lift. It was a breath of fresh air. Everyone relaxed. The atmosphere since then has become more spontaneous; our interactions, more genuine.

Marty took the risk of using his sense of humor to enliven his lesson. *Humor defuses tension and promotes a positive relationship with students*