I felt I took the proper steps. I knew from his other teachers that Joe’s father has him on a short leash. So after moving his seat, I knew that the next step, threatening him with a referral, would work.

Brett provoked the confrontation. Rather than approach Joe with a request or even an order, Brett issued a threat. *Using threats (or bribes) to control student behavior undermines any potential for a mutually respectful relationship.* Second, Brett rebuked Joe publicly instead of privately or at least discreetly. *A private conversation preserves the student’s or students’ dignity, thereby forestalling a defensive or hostile response.*

How should Brett have approached Joe? If Brett was angry with Joe for disrupting the class’s study time, he could have expressed his anger by referring to his own feelings. For example, he could have said to Joe, again privately, “I am upset that this study time is being wasted. Everyone here needs to study.” *Instead of criticizing the actions of their students, teachers can safely express their anger by referring to their own feelings.* Or he could have said, “You’ve been out a few days. How can I help you settle in?” A “working with” rather than a “doing to” approach promotes student maturity.

Then, if Joe continued to resist, Brett could offer him a choice. “You have a choice: Stay and give everyone a chance to study or go to the Guidance Office for the rest of the period. I hope you’ll stay, but the choice is yours.” *Offering a choice fosters autonomy rather than dependency and lessens defiance.* Believing that he responded appropriately, however, and that Joe had provoked the confrontation, Brett is likely to perpetuate this cycle of antagonism with Joe. *Only when you recognize your own contribution to a problem do you have any power to solve it.* (See Brett’s Story in **Chapter 2** for an analysis of his lesson.)

## Roger’s Story

On Wednesday, our team of teachers and 112 students went on a field trip to a power plant. After lunching by the river, I noticed several pieces of trash on the tables and grass. I asked the students whether any of them had left the trash. Several of the boys closest to the trash answered,