same seating arrangement—Marge and Helen disruptively engaged in their own conversation. I walked over to Helen as I continued to speak to the class. I tapped lightly on her desk and quietly asked her to face forward and continue with her notebook entries.

Some minutes later, Helen, Marge, and now Joanne as well were engaged in a conversation. Again I positioned myself at Helen’s desk, the hub of the activity, this time whispering for her to move to a desk a few rows away from the temptation to turn and talk. Then, after engaging the class in a new task, I walked over to Helen and asked her whether she understood why I’d asked her to move. She had understood and explained my message clearly. She asked whether she could sit by Marge tomorrow, and I said, “As long as you understand the behavior expected of you and feel you can handle it, you may sit next to Marge.”

I think I managed the situation well. I focused on correcting Helen without disrupting the lesson, I didn’t raise my voice, and I provided her with an opportunity to control her own behavior without having to brood over teacher unfairness.

Like Lois, Lenora had a systematic management plan. She began with proximity interference, walking over to Helen. Then she used **touch interference**, light physical contact with an object near Helen, in this case Helen’s desk. Next, she discreetly asked Helen to desist. Only after these steps failed did she whisper to Helen to move so as to avoid further temptation.

And, like Lois, Lenora had additional steps in her management plan. After telling Helen to move, she checked to see whether Helen understood why Lenora had moved her. *A teacher needs to make sure that students understand the problem from the teacher’s perspective and that he or she understands it from theirs.* Last, Lenora offered Helen an opportunity for redemption.

Throughout the execution of her management plan, Lenora provided repeated opportunities for Helen to practice self-control. Nevertheless, Lenora maintained her focus on the lesson and understood the importance of maintaining that focus. *For every minute you divert your students from the course of your lesson, you will lose several times that amount trying to reengage them.*