I waited until after class and asked the students to come into my office. Then I calmly said, “I didn’t like what I saw during the test. I don’t want to see it again.” Instead of a stream of denials, they apologized and assured me that it would not happen again.

I was pleased with this conversation. I held the discussion in private to avoid embarrassing them, I conveyed the message that I would not tolerate their behavior, and they made a commitment to stop.

Despite their anger, Angela and Elsie each postponed the discussion with their students until they could address the situation calmly. *Teachers need to be the model of a rational, temperate, consistent, and positive adult, the only such model some of their students may ever see.* Then, without preaching, each briefly presented her concerns to the pair in private. A *private conversation preserves the student’s or students’ dignity, thereby forestalling a defensive or hostile response*.

Elsie’s approach, however, was more effective than Angela’s. Angela, presenting her students with an implicit accusation, focused on what they had done, namely, produce an identical pattern of answers, and what they should do, namely, provide her with an explanation. On the other hand, Elsie focused on her own feelings. She said, “I didn’t like …” and “I don’t want. …” *Instead of criticizing [even implicitly] the actions of their students, teachers can safely express their anger by referring to their own feelings*.

Angela expected to resolve the situation by eliciting an admission and imposing a penalty. On the other hand, Elsie, softened by memories of her own schooldays and informed by the strategies of other teachers, chose a “working with” rather than a “doing to” approach. A “working with” rather than a “doing to” approach promotes student maturity. Thus Angela, with no admission or any other proof to justify imposing a penalty, became frustrated, whereas Elsie, eliciting not only an admission but their commitment to stop, was pleased.

How do your values and beliefs about cheating compare with Angela’s or Elsie’s?

### Note to Elsie’s Story: Expressing Anger Safely