room while his partners took turns reading their script to explain the journey of an ovum from the ovary, through the Fallopian tube, to the uterus. Similarly, Chad’s having his students create an imaginative interpretation of some aspect of his topic could have, with little or no preparation and few materials, productively engaged his students for another 15 to 50 minutes.

## Luz’s Story

At the end of one of my lessons, I realized we still had about 7 minutes left in the period. I told the students to stay in their seats until the bell rang. First the students began to talk. Then the volume increased. In the back of the room, a couple of boys began to play fight. Nothing got out of control, but I had to redirect the students, and that made me uncomfortable.

I made some changes for my next presentation of that lesson. First, I slowed my pace through the lecture and gave more examples. Then I added some activities. I also created a safety pack of transparencies. Now, whenever I have time at the end of a lesson, I pull them out and we look at them. On some of them, I have multiple-choice questions to review material we’ve already covered. On others, we enjoy *The Far Side* cartoons for a laugh.

Chad happened upon a onetime solution. Luz, on the other hand, created a tool for a more lasting solution, a safety pack of transparencies. Alternatively, she could have had her students write a one- or two-sentence response to their choice of one of the following questions: “What was this lesson about?” “What did you come to know today?” “How is this topic important to you?” and “What questions do you still have?” As time permits, she could then have students read or tell about their own response or comment on another’s. In either case, she would have an instructional segment appropriate to append to any lesson, one flexible in length and requiring no significant preparation. How would you plan for such a segment?