students, however, quickly began cutting up their frogs before I could tell them what they were looking at.

Other groups refused to touch their frogs and started shrieking, “Eeewww. It’s alive!” or “Gross, it’s breathing.” So I went over to them and dissected their frogs myself. I tried to remain calm, but the situation was quickly getting so loud and out of control that I could barely contain my laughter.

Finally, when I gave the groups a few minutes to do their own exploring, they mutilated the frogs, sadistically cutting out their eyeballs and stabbing them with their probes. At the end of the period, I had the students throw away their frogs and clean out their dissecting pans. What they didn’t do, however, was clean the surface of their tables. So when the next class came in, those students got all charged up about the frog parts (e.g., eggs, skin, and eyeballs) littering their tabletops.

Upon reflection, I realized this experience was of little or no value to this class. So for my classes on Monday, I turned the lab into a 2-day activity where I could take one period just to explain the rules and demonstrate the procedure. I also took more time to explain the moral issues and why they needed to behave maturely. When the time came for these classes to dissect their frogs, **classroom management** was no longer a problem, and the students really learned from the experience.

Amy was successful on Monday because she took the time to communicate with her students. She stressed the moral issues in doing the dissection and used those issues to justify her expectation that they behave maturely. Students need to understand the rationale behind a rule, **routine**, or expectation, that each is not simply an arbitrary attempt to control their behavior.

Second, by extending the activity to a 2-day experience, Amy disconnected her doing the demonstration from their doing the dissection. During her presentation, the students were no longer sitting in pairs, and, more important, they did not have the materials in hand. Materials should be distributed no sooner than immediately before each student or group is to use them, and they should be collected no later than immediately after each student or group is finished with them. Deferring the distribution of materials would have precluded her Friday students from dissecting their