and reassigned him to a seat in the front of the room. He packed his belongings as if he were heading for Outer Mongolia, sulking his way to the vacant desk. But after that, he stopped making off-the-wall comments and has become one of the bright students in the class.

Moving the talkative student to the front row improved both the student’s behavior and achievement, the latter quite dramatically. Mario’s story, however, suggests he had another problem, that of conceptualizing his role as a teacher (see *Chapter 16*). Mario, like many novice teachers, vacillated between extremes, in his case between being the nice guy and then the bad guy, instead of finding the single role he could assume consistently. A novice teacher can take a long time to find that role.

### Rachel’s Story

During one lesson last week, the students were completely out of control. They kept on talking—and their talk wasn’t about social studies. No matter what I said or did, I knew I was losing them.

Although the whole class seemed to be talking at first, I saw that only two were engaging the others in conversations. Thinking back to what I had read and advice I had been given, I quickly decided to stop the class and move the two ringleaders. They resisted with groans: “But why?” and “Do I have to?” But I held my position. Then I focused back on the lesson.

What a difference! The students quickly forgot about having to move away from their friends, and the talking ceased. I was able to finish the lesson without much difficulty. By the next day, I didn’t even have to remind them where to sit. They just sat in their newly assigned seats.

Rachel determined the dynamics of the group, identified the ringleaders, made a decision, and then executed it firmly. *Execute your decisions with the conviction of a baseball umpire.*