so I threatened to give the quiz to the class right then and there. The other students, however, convinced him to take out his notebook and study. After about a minute, he began to talk to the student next to him, so I moved Joe’s seat to the back of the room. After about another minute, he began talking to the same student again, now from across the room. At this point, I told him to stop talking and study for the quiz. To this he answered, “What are you gonna do if I don’t?”

I threatened him again, this time to write a referral on him. So he quickly quieted down because he had been told that if he got any more referrals, he could be thrown out of school.

I felt I took the proper steps. I knew from his other teachers that Joe’s father has him on a short leash. So after moving his seat, I knew that the next step, threatening him with a referral, would work.

Instead of blaming Joe for disrupting the class’s study time, Brett should have devised a definite review activity. Activities in which students can work together, choose their task, be creative, use novel materials, imagine a novel situation, or relate a concept to everyday life appeal to students. For example, Brett could have given his students a list of concepts for the quiz and had them form groups, each group choosing its own concept. Then he could have had each group create a poster, skit, story, or song to explain the concept and make a 1-minute presentation of that concept to the rest of the class. (See the comments following Chad’s Story, Chapter 5, for how a teacher could execute such an activity, and for an analysis of Brett’s treatment of Joe, see the comments following the second presentation of Brett’s Story, in Chapter 25.)

### Note to Brett’s Story: Power-Seeking Students

Power-seeking students challenge the teacher’s authority in order to gain acceptance from their peers. If the teacher effects compliance, the advantage, therefore, is only temporary. The power struggle intensifies, and the teacher–student relationship deteriorates.

- Dreikurs, R., Grunwald, B., & Pepper, F. (1982). *Maintaining sanity in the classroom: Classroom management techniques* (2nd ed.). New York: Harper & Row.
- Levin, J., & Shanken-Kaye, J. (2002). *From disrupter to achiever: Creating successful learning environments for the self-control classroom*. Dubuque, IA: Kendall/Hunt.