suicide.” I read his essay pretty late at night—it was one of the last ones I had to read—and I was shocked.

This boy has a tendency to be inappropriate and goof off, and his behavior, sadly, has made him an outcast among his peers. If he was joking around, then he needed to realize how serious the issue of teen suicide is. If he was earnest, then he needed help, and I was frightened for him. So I spoke with the boy’s guidance counselor who, agreeing that the matter was serious, said he would meet that day to speak first with the boy and then with the school psychologist.

The boy was pulled out of my sixth-period class and returned 15 minutes later. I overheard him talking to another student as they were leaving the room at the end of class. He said, “Mr.______ thought I was serious when I wrote yesterday about committing suicide. …” That was all I heard. I must admit I was relieved to hear that his paragraph was some kind of sick joke, but I was also angry that he would have written something like that, angry that I cared and that he hadn’t realized the impact his joke could have on somebody.

The next day, I followed up with the staff. The guidance counselor said that the boy didn’t know why he wrote it, that it was just a joke. Neither the counselor nor the school psychologist seemed to be concerned about the boy’s emotional state. Again, I was relieved.

But I still have some lingering anger. I am pleased with how quickly the staff investigated the threat but disappointed that they seemed less concerned than I. And I wish I had taken the opportunity to speak with the boy about the seriousness of teen suicide. Finally, a part of me remains afraid for this boy as I continue to wonder why he wrote that.

Mitchell responded as the law requires, by reporting the threat to someone in charge, whether it be the school nurse, principal, or guidance counselor. Beyond that, Mitchell could have done little else. He simply does not have the expertise. *Teachers need to recognize and accept their limitations.* Aside from observing the boy regularly for other threatening signs, however, Mitchell might make an occasion to speak with him, not so much about the seriousness of teen suicide but to coach him on gaining social acceptance.