Adrienne taught her students to respond to an obtrusive, brief, and immediately recognizable signal. What’s more, the signal is nonverbal. *Nonverbal signals are better than verbal signals because they do not provoke defensive arguments or hostile confrontations.*

## Tiffany’s Story

I awoke that morning with a really bad cold, and over the course of the day, it developed into a case of laryngitis. By the afternoon, I could hardly talk at all and couldn’t quiet the kids down to start the lesson. So I let my seventh graders know of my situation. At that point, I decided to give them some responsibility for managing the class. We were going to be doing some small-group activities, and I needed a way to get them back together as a whole class. So I let them suggest a signal they could all agree on so I wouldn’t have to strain my voice. The signal would alert them to give me their attention.

After they made suggestions and I approved them, the kids voted on the signal they preferred. I then used that signal to get their attention for the rest of the period. The kids’ participation in choosing the signal and the carefully planned lesson, one that kept them actively involved for the entire period, contributed toward the class’s running smoothly.

By giving her students a share in choosing the signal, Tiffany fostered their commitment to it. Like Liz, she relaxed her own control to rely instead on their self-control, and she involved her students in an appealing learning activity.

Accordingly, rather than persisting with a lesson doomed to fail (and then blaming the failure on their students), all four teachers acted like a **classroom manager** rather than a **disciplinarian**. They controlled what they could, the execution of their lesson. *Teachers cannot control their students’ behaviors, although they can influence and react to them. Teachers can, however, control their own behavior.*

## Matt’s Story