“No.” Then I asked if any of the boys would help me clean up the area so the trash wouldn’t blow into the river. “It’s not ours,” they answered.

As I was collecting the trash from a table, I asked Bobby to pick up the plastic bag at his feet. He picked it up, but then promptly threw it down. I ordered him to pick it back up as I saw it was about to blow into the river. He complied and together we walked to the trash can. Neither one of us was pleased with the other. When I told him we were all responsible for keeping the area clean and preventing the trash from blowing into the river, he shouted, “Shut up!” and started pumping his fists. I reported the incident to the other teachers and learned that last Saturday, he had punched the quarterback after the football game.

While my group was waiting to board our bus back to school, I heard a commotion and saw a teacher escorting another boy, pale and trembling, off one of the buses. Bobby had punched him in the head.

What did I learn from this event? Do not assume that a student will react as you intend him or her to react. I thought I could get Bobby to help me, but he saw my request as a demand.

Roger got no cooperation when he asked the boys to help him clean up, probably because of the way he asked. Given his preceding question, “Who left this trash?” volunteering to help would be a boy’s implicit admission that the trash was his. Hoping to avoid taking the blame, the boys answered, “It’s not ours.” Instead, Roger should have asked for help at the outset, saying something like Jack said to Ralph: “Boys, would you mind helping me pick up this trash, please? … Thank you.”

Still, Roger’s mistake in framing his initial request would have been inconsequential had it not led first to his ordering Bobby to pick up the plastic bag and then to his stream of moral platitudes to justify his order. *Teach (by example); don’t preach. Platitudes patronize.* Roger’s platitudes triggered Bobby’s outburst. Roger’s biggest mistake, however, was that he singled out Bobby to help him when he really didn’t know him.

## Note to Roger’s Story: Revenge-Seeking Students

Bobby is an example of a **revenge-seeking student**, a student who feels that he has no control over his environment and that others disregard him and treat him unfairly. Such students are