# Len’s Story

Murphy said, “If something can go wrong, it will!” And that’s what happened to me the day I planned to demonstrate Charles’s Law for my physical science class. Not only wouldn’t the hot plate heat fast enough, but nothing else went well either. When these kinds of things happen, I ask myself, “What can I learn from these mishaps?” In this case, I learned the importance of having a backup plan. I resorted to asking the class questions about what should have happened and why.

I was careful to explain to the class that I had made a mistake in not having tested the hot plate or having another one handy. “Teachers are human and make mistakes, too,” I said. The next day, I repeated an abridged version of the demonstration and went on from there. I know the students appreciated my honesty.

Like Sally, Len conserved his instructional time, substituting a set of “what if” and “why” questions for the aborted demonstration. *Punctuating a lecture with thought-provoking questions (typically “why,” “how,” or “what if” questions) can stimulate interest.* However, improvising a few thought-provoking questions is a risky strategy for novice teachers, who have yet to master the art of asking an effective question, let alone of doing it spontaneously. Consequently, the strategy can degenerate into a **recitation**. To promote a more extensive and thoughtful consideration of his questions, among even timid students, Len could have had his students formulate and justify a written prediction in pairs, with several pairs then reporting to the rest of the class.

Second, Len recognized his failure to test the hot plate or have another one handy. *Only when you recognize your own contribution to a problem do you have any power to solve it.* He also admitted his mistake to his students. *Don’t be afraid to admit your mistakes.* Teachers are not perfect. (No one could stand a teacher who was.) Rather than being perfect, *honest communication is fundamental to your relationships with your students.*

Last, as they each continued their lesson, Sally and Len maintained their composure. Regardless of the unexpected, teachers need to be the model of