Harry might not have misjudged their relationship. He simply didn’t realize how fragile the relationship with a troubled youngster can be. Instead of telling the boy he had to redo the essay, Harry should have offered him the choice to redo it. *Offering a choice fosters autonomy rather than dependency and lessens defiance.* Harry could have framed their conversation as an opportunity for the boy to improve his writing skills and thereby gain more points. Then, by making a distinction between street talk and classroom talk, Harry could have shown him how, by using the appropriate language, the boy could create a more precise and persuasive essay. *A “working with” rather than a “doing to” approach promotes student maturity.*

## Note to Harry’s Story: Choices and Moral Development

Giving students control, that is, responsibility for making decisions including choices, fosters their moral development because they have an opportunity to construct and reflect on their values (Kohn, 2006a).

- Kohn, A. (2006a). *Beyond discipline: From compliance to community, 10th anniversary edition*. Alexandria, VA: Association for Supervision and Curriculum Development.

According to Piaget (1965) and later, Kohlberg (e.g., 1969), children progress through stages of moral development. For example, most teenagers are at the stage in which they can begin to connect an action to its consequences.

- Kohlberg, L. (1969). *Stages in the development of moral thought and action*. New York: Holt, Rinehart & Winston.
- Piaget, J. (1965). *The moral judgment of the child*. New York: Free Press.

### Mitchell’s Story

In mid-February, I assigned a one-paragraph, in-class writing assignment to complete our study of the landscape regions of the world. I asked the students to explain why they would each choose to live in a particular region.

One student started off with a great response. Choosing the mountains, he correctly identified the characteristics of the region and then added that he would be able to “pick out a perfect place to commit