Now and then I still see a strip of paper in the hall, one that we missed during the cleanup. It reminds me that a well-planned and well-executed lesson, aside from enhancing the students’ understanding, is fun besides.

Ryan’s lesson generated enthusiasm because the activity was novel for his students. In addition, he made the connection explicit between the activity and the concept of competition so the activity could make sense to them. Undoubtedly, his students also appreciated his effort to prepare such a novel activity. *Students appreciate a novel activity as long as its meaning has been made explicit.* How could you add novelty to one of your own activities?

## Jill’s Story

For their study of animal nutrition, the students in my 10th-grade biology class were observing live hydra with their microscopes. Each pair had a hydra. While observing it, they each had to draw what they saw and label specific parts. Once they had done that, I gave each pair a daphnia for the hydra to ingest.

One pair of students was truly amazed and enthusiastic. Their hydra was ingesting its daphnia. They seemed almost proud of their hydra, especially when other students wanted to see it. They were far from the top students in the class. Actually, they were average to below average.

When it was time for the class to end, both students were so caught up in the lesson that they asked to stay. They had such an honest interest, I was really surprised.

I remember this event because it reaffirmed my belief that novel, hands-on experiences can reach students who might otherwise not respond to a lesson. It was also special for me because the informal atmosphere of the activity gave me a chance to interact with the students on a more personal level.

The excitement her lesson generated, especially among her low achievers, surprised Jill. However, in addition to having prepared a novel