Since then, he has calmed down. I wouldn’t call him my best student, but I can see that by stopping him that first day, I passed his test. He knows I won’t tolerate his attempts to dominate the class.

Danny communicated an implicit warning: “I am the authority here. If you want attention, you just might get it, but on my terms, not yours.”

#### Eric’s Story

The kids had just come from gym for their last class on an unseasonably warm Friday afternoon. They were bouncing off the walls, bursting with energy and planning their weekend. I had to take several minutes just to get them in their seats and ready to work. Classroom routines were a distant memory. These kids wanted nothing to do with learning. My desperate attempts to capture their attention were exactly that, desperate. After several minutes of coaxing, however, I got to start my lesson.

The next 30 minutes were touch and go. The kids were poorly behaved, but we came close to completing the lesson. During the last few minutes, however, the most dominant kid, the perennial class clown, was vying with me for control. After all this, was he going to prevent me from closing the lesson?

Rather than waste my time with warnings or threats, I enlisted his help. First, I tried having him assist me from his seat, but that didn’t work because with all the noise, the others couldn’t hear him. So, again in desperation, I brought him up to join me at the front of the room. It worked wonderfully. The other kids listened and laughed as he summarized the lesson. Of course, I had to correct his blunders, but everyone in the class thoroughly enjoyed his humorous but informative closure to the lesson.

Both Danny and Eric acted like a **classroom manager** rather than a **disciplinarian**. That is, they concentrated on continuing the lesson rather than on treating the **misbehavior**. They each took a risk, daring their class clown to take center stage, but ended up creating a novel situation that