In response to the mounting noise, both John and Liz changed their teaching strategy. Unlike John, Liz restructured her lesson entirely, involving her students in an active, creative learning experience, putting the responsibility for understanding the material squarely on their shoulders. In her desperation, she discovered that a teacher can regain students’ interest by involving them in an appealing learning activity. What’s more, she realized that rather than impose control, a teacher should foster students’ self-control. Last, she realized that telling isn’t teaching. Students can listen for only a short period of time. Then they need an opportunity to build their own understanding of the material.

How could you spontaneously restructure one of your lessons?

## Adrienne’s Story

The event that sticks out in my mind occurred in my middle school on a Friday, the day after Rosh Hashanah. We had no classes on Rosh Hashanah, so when Friday arrived, school was the last place the students wanted to be. I could tell from the minute I walked into the building that it would be a hectic day. When classes began, my fears were confirmed. The students were rambunctious and had difficulty settling down. By second period, I was ready to pull my hair out.

Thankfully, I remembered a trick I learned at a school-sponsored seminar on classroom management. Some of the students were familiar with the management technique I used. I raised my hand and counted from 1 to 5 loudly enough to be heard. The students familiar with this technique caught on and began counting along. The others were confused as to what was going on and stopped their conversations. I was prepared to repeat this procedure as we were instructed, but fortunately this was not necessary. Once I had their attention, I explained the technique and continued to use it for the rest of the day with great success.

When I was introduced to this technique, I wasn’t sure how well the students would respond. However, to my surprise and delight, it works beautifully, and my doubts about its effectiveness have disappeared.