wait for me while I elicited a more appropriate response to my question. Meanwhile, I could see that Marvin was hurt, but I wasn’t sure how to protect him. I displayed some notes on the overhead projector and told the class that Gil was in big trouble and that I would be returning momentarily to what had better be a quiet classroom.

I spoke to Gil in the hallway. “Do you realize that what you said was inappropriate?”

“But it’s true.”

“How do you think Marvin feels?”

“I don’t care about Marvin.”

“Does your mom take care of you? Does she draw your bath or wash your clothes?”

“Yeah,” Gil conceded.

“Well, Marvin has to do these things on his own.”

“I don’t care.”

I couldn’t understand why I wasn’t getting through to Gil. He has instigated minor disruptions but always respected my authority. I was disappointed in him and decided to tell him so.

“Gil, I’ve just learned something about you. You are cruel. You hurt his feelings in front of the whole class, and you don’t even care. From now on, whenever I look at you, I’m going to remember how you behaved today.” Then Gil cracked, finally showing remorse, but not for having hurt Marvin, rather, for having lost his status with me.

I believe I acted correctly in getting Gil out of the classroom and explaining to him why what he did was wrong. Also, I kept the two boys after class so Gil could apologize to Marvin. But I should not have told Gil that he is cruel. Instead, I should have said that he had done a cruel thing. And I should have provided a way for him to regain his status with me.

Sam intervened swiftly to speak privately with Gil to make sure he was aware of his behavior and how it affected Marvin. Sam, however, like Ollie, needed to *address the situation, not the shortcomings of the student(s)*. Instead of judging Gil, as he did with his statement, “Gil, you are cruel,” he should have said something like this: “Your behavior has hurt Marvin. I would be glad to help you make it up to him. How could you do that?”