through with the promised consequence. The discussion we had helped Cindy understand why she needs to control herself.

How did Lois’s offering a choice compare with Fred’s issuing a threat? They each warned their student and then followed through with the promised consequence. Lois, however, was composed, whereas Fred was agitated. First, unlike Fred, Lois had a systematic plan for dealing with Cindy: She gave Cindy two warnings; then a seat change to the front; followed by another warning coupled with a clear consequence, the seat change to the hall; then a private conference; and finally, redemption. *Teachers need a systematic management plan ranging from subtle to progressively more direct and intrusive interventions.*

Second, Lois explained to Cindy why moving her seat into the hall would be necessary, namely, so that Cindy and everyone else around her could concentrate. Fred, on the other hand, simply told Julio that his behavior was becoming intolerable. *Students need to understand the rationale behind a rule, **routine**, or expectation, that each is not simply an arbitrary attempt to control their behavior.*

Third, Cindy could infer that the seat change would be only temporary, until she could gain control. Remember, Julio became defiant only when he realized his seat change would be permanent. Thus Cindy, unlike Julio, could see the seat change less as a punishment and more as a **time-out**, an opportunity for her, without further consequences, to gain composure before returning to class. To summarize, Lois’s offering a choice was more successful than Fred’s issuing a threat. *Offering a choice fosters autonomy rather than dependency and lessens defiance.*

# Lenora’s Story

A few students sit close together and chat with or pass notes to one another. I assigned seats one day for the purpose of doing group work. I shuffled the deck a little, but my main objective was to put some students near those they could help.

I intentionally left together a pair of students who seemed friendly with one another. Marge was doing well on quizzes, and Helen needed to improve. The group work went well, but the next day—I’d kept the