answer. Her claim is that increasing both wait times substantially improves students’ comprehension and attitude.

- Groisser, P. (1964). *How to use the fine art of questioning*. Valley Stream, NY: Teachers Practical Press.
- Rowe, M. B. (1986). Wait time: Slowing down may be a way of speeding up! *Journal of Teacher Education*, 37(1), 43–50.

## Liz’s Story

My social studies class was starting a unit on economics, and I planned the first lesson with the idea that the students would need quite a bit of background information on the Supply and Demand Model before they could do any learning tasks themselves. I mistakenly believed that the students could handle a long lecture. Well, about halfway through my spiel, the noise became unbearable. I couldn’t even hear my own voice. I started asking questions of particular students as a way to point out that they were not paying attention. The students looked discouraged, and their attitudes didn’t improve at all with my questioning. So I decided to abandon the lecture, break them up into small groups, and give each group a topic I had planned to cover in my lecture. Luckily, I had supplies in the room that I could grab. Everyone in each group was assigned a production role, and each group was instructed to make a poster about its topic.

Doing this was actually frightening for me because I could imagine the students becoming noisier, even more out of control. I was pleasantly surprised when, after they received their supplies, the room became comparatively quiet. They got so involved in their research that they actually begged to stay longer so they could finish their posters.

I realized that just because I am standing at the front of the room, I am not necessarily in control and the students are not necessarily learning anything. I actually enjoy this spirited class very much. I have learned not to give them any slack when my lecture is brief, but now they know they can expect a rewarding experience afterwards, working to create their own understanding of the material.