Moreover, novice teachers can better concentrate on lesson execution when they use **routines** to structure regular classroom events. Routines streamline your teaching. *If used consistently, a routine minimizes the time and energy needed to direct a regular classroom event.* You don’t have to belabor directions, and your students know what you expect of them. In Chapter 2, Michelle taught her students a routine for playing Jeopardy! In Chapter 6, Anne, Mark, and Jodi each established a routine for starting their lessons. And in Chapter 10, David reestablished a routine for his students to take daily note of their homework assignment.

- Effective managers anticipate problems and devise ways to circumvent them as they plan. *A teacher needs to consider both management and curricular objectives when planning and executing a lesson.* For example, Ira (Chapter 1), when planning to administer a test during the first half of a double period, decided to permit his students to take their customary break but only upon handing in their test paper. Similarly, Larry (Chapter 18) assigned each of his two most troublesome students to a high-status but demanding task in order to forestall their disrupting his lesson.
- Effective managers enforce their rules with consistency and ease because they have perfected a teaching role that suits their personality, students, and institutional culture. Novice teachers are still searching for that role. Like Mario (Chapter 17), Ollie (Chapter 22), and Gary (Chapter 27), they may vacillate between being too permissive and too harsh. Or like Jedd and Connor (Chapter 16), who each acted like a buddy to some of their students, they may assume a counterproductive role. Some, like Brett (Chapters 2 and 25), become a dictator, whereas others, like Leah (Chapter 7) and Connor (Chapter 16), reject that role.
- Effective managers overplan to prevent **dead time**. *Dead time generates disorder.* For example, to prevent dead time in the middle of her lesson, Lisa (Chapter 5) embedded enrichment tasks within her individual and group activities to occupy those who would otherwise finish ahead of their classmates. Luz (also Chapter 5) developed a supplementary activity for lesson closure, one she could append to any lesson to prevent dead time at the end.
- Effective managers execute brisk, activity-based lessons, ones with hardly an opportunity for misbehavior. Like Henry (Chapter 1), they