useful technique but only when the potential for boredom is high, such as during a lecture or recitation, and the students are efficient learners who care about their grades.

Referred to as “drill and kill,” a **recitation** is a series of teacher questions each followed by a student’s answer. This often monotonous but regrettably common teaching strategy is especially risky for novices, who have yet to master the art of asking an effective question, let alone of doing it spontaneously. Students quickly become bored with the interaction, which at any one time calls for the participation of only one student. Instead of a lecture, John could have engaged his students in a more creative learning experience as we’ll see in the next **story**.

## Notes to John’s Story

### Recitations

Some educators claim that a recitation is a useful instructional strategy because it offers students an opportunity to get feedback on their understanding of recent material and alerts them to the significant points. In addition, it enables teachers to assess their students’ understandings.

- Farrar, M. (1986). Teacher questions: The complexity of the cognitively simple. *Instructional Science, 15*, 89–107.
- Gall, M. (1984). Synthesis of research on teachers’ questioning. *Educational Leadership, 42*(3), 40–47.

Others claim that because the teacher controls the discourse, a recitation limits opportunities for authentic discussion and for students to frame their own questions.

- Dillon, J. T. (1988). *Questioning and teaching: A manual of practice*. New York: Teachers College Press.

### Posing Effective Questions

Regardless of whether you use recitation as an instructional strategy, you still need to know how to pose an effective question. Grousser (1964) explains the characteristics of effective questions and how to use them to promote classroom discourse. For example, an effective question must be thought provoking. Thus, a “how,” “why,” or “what if” question is better than a “what” or “which” question. Besides, students are less likely to call out a response to a thought-provoking question because a clause or entire sentence rather than a single word or phrase is necessary.

The teacher needs to allow sufficient wait time for students to wrestle with such a question, perhaps even inviting them to jot down their ideas or consult with a neighbor before attempting a response. Mary Budd Rowe refers to this wait time as **wait time 1**, the length of the pause between the teacher’s asking a question and calling on a student to answer. She defines **wait time 2** as the length of the pause between the student’s answer and the teacher’s response to that