promotes student maturity because it establishes a relationship based on mutual respect rather than one based on domination and compliance. Fred showed Julio that he was willing to give him a second chance, and Julio made a commitment to improve. The promise of redemption is a strong motivator. How could you use the promise of redemption to promote a student’s cooperation?

During their conversation in the hall, Fred listened to Julio express his feelings of having been unjustly punished. Students’ anger can intimidate a novice teacher, but listening to their complaints and acknowledging their feelings is the beginning of a relationship. Perhaps Fred had said something like this to Julio: “I see that this seat change has been a real bummer for you.” If so, such a statement would have been vague enough to give Julio an opportunity to express his feelings and precise enough for him to feel understood. A teacher should be strict about students’ behavior but permissive about their feelings.

## Lois’s Story

A girl in one of my morning classes insists on talking to her neighbors. Normally, just saying her name is enough to get her to stay quiet for a while. However, on Tuesday, Cindy just wouldn’t stay quiet. After a second warning, I switched her seat to the front of the room.

By Wednesday, I could see that the seat change would not be enough. After the first warning, I told Cindy she would have the choice of staying quiet so that she and everyone around her could learn or moving her seat into the hall until she could gain control. The next time she began to chat, I calmly told her that she had made her choice to sit in the hall.

After several minutes, while the other students were working, I went out into the hall and discussed with Cindy how her behavior was affecting her and her fellow students. Then I allowed her to return to class. Since that day, she has spoken in class only when it’s been appropriate.

I realize now that my action on Tuesday to change her seat was not enough. On Wednesday, however, I gave her a choice and followed