Finally, because of numerous suspensions, he has been in our classroom a total of only 10 days since school began 6 weeks ago. How can I make Kevin do his work while teaching the 30 other students?

No one can make Kevin do his work. Unlike Greg and Carl, who wouldn’t do the work, Kevin probably can’t. He has missed too many classes. Jeremy would need to hold a series of remedial sessions with Kevin to treat both his academic deficiencies and his disruptive behavior, which interact to propel him toward failure.

First, Jeremy would need to have a private conversation with Kevin to express concern more for his welfare than for his completing his work and to suggest to him a series of remedial sessions. Second, Kevin would need to make the choice between making the commitment to change and having to repeat the course. *Offering a choice fosters autonomy rather than dependency and lessens defiance.*

During the sessions, Jeremy would need to point out to Kevin his academic progress and help him understand how his behavior has been undermining his peers’ acceptance. And third, Jeremy would need to coach Kevin to adopt more appropriate ways to express his feelings. *The development of a trusting relationship with a caring adult is the most effective strategy for treating a student with a chronic school problem.*

## Note: Cycle of Discouragement

Greg, Carl, and Kevin may each be caught in a **cycle of discouragement**. That is, given their history of academic failure, they may misbehave as a way to feel significant. The consequences, however, result in a reaffirmation of their sense of failure and their need to misbehave further. To break the cycle, a teacher, in addition to stopping the misbehavior, would have to find a positive way to fulfill their need to feel significant (Levin & Nolan, 2007). How could you help one of your students feel more significant?

- Levin, J., & Nolan, J. F. (2007). *Principles of classroom management: A professional decision-making model* (5th ed.). Boston: Allyn & Bacon.

Kevin may have the added problem of being unable to do the work. Grabe (1985) would, therefore, recommend a **mastery learning** approach to break his cycle of discouragement. Mastery learning is an instructional approach in which students are individually given the time and support to master a set of concepts or skills at their current academic level before progressing to the next level. With this approach, Kevin would have the opportunity, with diligence, to catch up to his peers.