How do you think Ryan, Jill, or Henry (Chapter 1) might have enlivened Marty’s or Peter’s lesson?

One way Marty or Peter might have enlivened his own lesson could have been by punctuating his lectures with opportunities for his students to wrestle with the concepts themselves. For example, as soon as Marty introduced the diatomic elements (H, O, F, Br, I, N, and Cl), he could have asked them to take a few minutes, perhaps with the help of their book, the Periodic Table, and a partner, to determine why those elements would be diatomic. Similarly, Peter could have asked his students to make a chart to show how weathering and erosion compare. *Punctuating a lecture with thought-provoking questions* (typically “why,” “how,” or “what if” questions) can stimulate interest. Trivial questions, however, especially the rapid stream of “what” questions associated with a **recitation**, compound boredom (see John’s Story, Chapter 8).

## Note to Marty’s and Peter’s Stories: Alleviating Boredom

To alleviate boredom, Good and Weinstein (1986) recommend that teachers have their students practice using the concepts during the lesson in cognitively active and meaningful ways.

- Good, T. L., & Weinstein, R. (1986). Teacher expectations: A framework for exploring classrooms. In K. K. Zumwalt (Ed.), *Improving teaching* (The 1986 ASCD Yearbook, pp. 63–86). Alexandria, VA: Association for Supervision and Curriculum Development.

## Joe’s Story

It was during the middle of the week that a certain event surprised and impressed me. It was after lunch, and I had my problematic sixth-period biology class. This class consists of sophomores, juniors, and seniors, all low achievers. Most of my classroom management challenges come from this class. At times, I have found myself dreading their arrival, afraid of their reaction to my activities. But on this occasion, they delighted me.

I was introducing them to the different kinds of cells and planned to have them first list as many body parts as they could. Then I could relate each body part to its various kinds of cells.