When I met with them, I told them I had seen the same pattern of right and wrong answers on their papers and wanted to know what explanation they had for me. They denied cheating, but based on how they responded, I believe that Winnie copied from Barbara’s paper but Barbara was unaware of it. Without proof, however, I didn’t feel comfortable punishing Winnie. So I told them I accepted their statements and their grades would stand, but I would change their seats.

Overall, I was frustrated with the outcome. I was upset that they had cheated and that without proof, I could do nothing. But at least I didn’t embarrass them.

Angela may have needed to make explicit the distinction between group work as a learning activity and testing as an assessment activity in order to explain to her students why they would have to work independently on their tests. Students need to understand the rationale behind a rule, **routine**, or expectation, that each is not simply an arbitrary attempt to control their behavior.

Moreover, Angela could better secure her short-answer test results by preparing two versions of the test, the versions differing in the order of the items, and administering each version in alternate rows. She would then have a **proactive management strategy** to replace the **reactive management strategy** of separating the students after she suspected them of having cheated. Proactive management strategies are better than reactive management strategies.

### Elsie’s Story

About 10 minutes into the test, I notice two students, good students, looking at each other’s test papers. Roy leaned toward Lori, and at the same time, Lori moved her paper a little closer to Roy.

I saw red! I felt like yelling, getting out of my seat, and tearing their papers to shreds. But I didn’t. I remembered how I had seen other teachers handle this situation. And I remembered being an insecure student myself and needing the validation I got when I saw that another student had answers the same as mine.