and handed it back to him. Later that period, he came up to ask me whether he could do the work to erase the zero. I said yes.

This was the first time I had been able to motivate him. The outcome was gratifying. I learned that students’ promptly seeing the consequences of their actions is a great motivator.

Luke’s strategy had three phases. First, he told Greg that he was holding him accountable for the assignment. A *penetrating comment* may be necessary to remind students when they are not living up to expectations or their responsibilities. Second, he gave the students, and especially Greg, prompt feedback on their performance. Students are most receptive to feedback immediately after they complete a task. And third, he gave Greg the opportunity to resubmit the assignment. The *promise of redemption* is a strong motivator.

Fortunately, Luke had not punished Greg beyond giving him the standard grade for failing to complete an assignment. And fortunately, Greg asked to resubmit the assignment. If he had not asked, Luke would have had to remind Greg of his responsibility and assign him a time, either during or after school, to come in to complete the work. On the other hand, knowing Greg, Luke should have been monitoring him during class, prompting him to use his time productively, and Luke should begin monitoring him now and continue to do so until Greg completes his work regularly.

### Wilma’s Story

My connection to Carl D. has been weak at best. He is the least motivated student in the class, has not been doing his work, and has been constantly disruptive.

One day, I called on another student named Carl, Carl F., and Carl D. got confused. I explained to him that I had called on Carl F., and Carl D. suggested that I call him by another name, the name Paul, to minimize the confusion. I thought this request was a little strange, but I went along with it.

Actually, his request has been a blessing. By calling him Paul, I have made a strong connection with him. He has been participating more actively in class and is more willing to do his work.