homework or class work and merely guesses on multiple-choice tests. He is failing the class with a solid 21% average.

When Mort once again proceeded to disrupt the class, I placed him in a neighboring teacher’s classroom, gave him an assignment, and told him I would collect his work at the end of the period. Despite a few incorrect answers, he completed the assignment and behaved himself, and aside from my having to take the few minutes to get him settled next door, my own class went smoothly.

The strategy appears to have been effective, at least for the short term. But how can I address this problem for the long term?

- Having had some success with Mort in the short term, Derek looked for a long-term solution. Effective managers focus on strategies for long-term solutions. *Strategies for the short term may be necessary, but they are rarely sufficient.*
- Effective managers use **reactive management strategies** whenever necessary but **proactive management strategies** whenever possible. In Chapter 8, compare Adrienne’s reactive strategy with Tiffany’s proactive strategy. And in Chapter 18, compare the reactive strategy Tina used initially with the proactive strategy she used later. **Proactive management strategies are better than reactive management strategies.**
- Effective managers concentrate more on lesson execution than on discipline, more on maintaining student engagement than on treating **misbehavior**. For example, in Chapter 7, both Jenny and Jonathan struggled with a persistently noisy class. Jonathan negotiated with the entire class to accept a management plan that would advance his lessons. On the other hand, Jenny singled out Paul for a reprimand, thereby derailing her lesson.

**Novice teachers** can better concentrate on lesson execution when they have an appealing lesson with clear directions. *An appealing lesson is necessary but not sufficient to preclude most* **discipline problems**. Ryan and Jill (Chapter 1) each had such a lesson. On the other hand, Melissa, Charlotte, and Tara (Chapter 4) each had a promising lesson, but their students could not follow the directions and, in their frustration, generated disorder, even chaos.