*deter* misbehavior; it fosters resentment, not cooperation. Thomas needed to find a more promising way to manage their persistent chatter as the following two novice teachers in this set of stories did.

## Note to Thomas’s Story: Punishment and Misbehavior

Punishment does not curb misbehavior beyond temporary compliance. Instead, students learn that inflicting punishment is the prerogative of the one in charge and that by being more circumspect, they can avoid detection.

- Clarizio, H. F. (1980). *Toward positive classroom discipline* (3rd ed.). New York: Wiley.
- Ginott, H. G. (1972). *Teacher and child: A book for parents and teachers*. New York: Macmillan.
- Kohn, A. (2006a). *Beyond discipline: From compliance to community, 10th anniversary edition*. Alexandria, VA: Association for Supervision and Curriculum Development.

## Alison’s Story

I am currently working with a low-achievement-level class that has been constantly challenging my management skills. In the beginning, I found myself being too lenient with them. I should have established boundaries. This was difficult for me because I was afraid of coming off as the “bad guy.”

But I saw that I needed to control their constant talking. So after an especially difficult class, I devised a new seating chart, carefully choosing where each student would sit. I also realized that implementing this new seating arrangement would require exercising my authority and explaining that I was unhappy with their behavior.

I came into class the next day and projected the new seating chart on the screen. I asked the students to move to their new seats immediately. When faced with opposition, I explained how their behavior was unacceptable and hurting their opportunities to learn. My speaking out definitely got their attention.

I felt better about the class after speaking to them because they could see that I meant business, that I wasn’t going to tolerate their misbehavior. They no longer sit with their friends and talk all period,