# Conclusion

## Becoming an Effective Classroom Manager

All of a teacher’s values, knowledge, and skills impact on **classroom management**. Becoming an effective **classroom manager** is, therefore, a developmental process. For example, as you learn about the curriculum, the instructional materials you have available, and your students, you will create lessons that appeal to their interests, relate to their experiences, and suit their abilities. And as you refine and expand that repertoire of lessons, you will build coherent instructional units and be able to make explicit the connections among the various lessons so your students can make sense of the curriculum. And as you gain confidence in your lessons, you will plan less for control and more for student learning, focusing more on your students’ progress than your own performance. Your classroom management will improve with each of these gains. What’s more, you will relax, and in doing just that, your classroom management will improve even more.

So how will you know when you’re becoming an effective classroom manager? One clue is in Derek’s Story:

### Derek’s Story

A boy in my second-period class is particularly troublesome. Mort does not participate in any activities and frequently disrupts the class. For example, he talks to the students around him, throws small objects, and gets out of his seat often. His behavior is a desperate gambit for attention, one I have yet to manage while teaching the rest of the class.

Mort has a long history of low achievement and borderline IQ scores. When I contact his parents, I get nowhere. Mort does no