clued me in. I circulated about the room as I had done with the first class but found that several groups couldn’t figure out the directions and felt lost. So I reminded them to read the textbook. I had to speak to one particular student several times about his behavior. He was misusing the clay and play dough and breaking the shells. After taking care of that problem, I believed everything would run smoothly, that is, until I realized that time was running out.

To continue the lesson as planned, I had to collect the samples whether the students had finished them or not. At this point, I thought they would be willing if not eager to discuss the problems they had encountered. Wrong! Almost no one participated. So we proceeded to the next segment of the lesson, when they were to identify another group’s samples.

The nightmare began quickly. The class became uncontrollable. Several of the students were breaking the samples and throwing the pieces at each other. I addressed the entire class and told them they must control themselves and that if this behavior continued, we could no longer work in groups or do any hands-on tasks.

Tara failed to adapt the directions to her second class, even after realizing her students could not follow them. Moreover, because she blamed her students instead of recognizing her own contribution to their frustration, she could not remedy the situation. Only when you recognize your own contribution to a problem do you have any power to solve it.

Instead, she threatened to punish the entire class. Punishing the entire class for the misbehavior of several is patently unfair. Never impose group punishment. Tara forfeited any claim to being the moral authority by threatening to impose an unfair punishment. Besides, punishment does not deter misbehavior; it fosters resentment, not cooperation. Second, using threats (or bribes) to control student behavior undermines any potential for a mutually respectful relationship. Students see threats (and bribes) as the teacher’s attempt to manipulate them.

Beginning with the first signs, how could Tara have either prevented or checked the disorder?

# A RUSE?