# Foreword

This is a book of real stories, of real people, in real classrooms, stories that resonate deeply with anyone who has spent any time with novice teachers. There are characters, both students and teachers, whom we have met again and again, and situations we know like the back of our hands. Novice teachers will, in these pages, meet and recognize themselves, their teacher education classmates, and their adolescent students. This book has that level of immediacy.

The focus of the book is clear, and the organization makes the lessons to be learned lucid. There is, in the arrangement of chapters, a list of things novice teachers can do and think about when their best imaginings seem to fall apart in the reality of their classroom or when they are faced with a behavior they have never seen before. It will be a useful and quick reference book for novices. As teacher educators, we often say there is no point in teachers claiming the authority they have in the classroom unless they also have a set of activities for their students to build some understanding, in short, unless they have a well-designed lesson plan. We also know, with the author, that a well-planned lesson is necessary but not sufficient for an effective lesson, for the implementation of a plan requires teachers to manage space, time, materials, and people. The arrangement of chapters clarifies and supports this distinction for novice teachers.

In the extensive preface, Professor Zuckerman makes the argument for why she chose these stories and why she presents them in this format. The preface is a must-read as the grounding for both the stories and the structure of the book. Readers will see that, for her, a well-managed classroom is best imagined not with a mind-set of discipline and punishment but rather from the stance of a teacher in a “learning habitat” (Zuckerman, personal communication). She has worked extensively with novice teachers and encountered with them a common wisdom in action. This wisdom is that when novice teachers practice effective classroom management, it no longer