# Susan’s Story

The event occurred during my seventh-period French class. I was giving directions for an in-class activity, each student to draw a scene from *Le Misanthrope* and then write a summary in French of what was happening in that scene. I had already presented the lesson to three earlier classes that day. The lesson had gone well so I didn’t anticipate any problems.

Following the *do-now*, I started to introduce the activity, giving the directions as I had done for the previous classes. Several students, however, repeatedly raised their hands claiming not to understand the activity even before I had finished explaining it. It was taking twice as long to deliver the directions to this class, and I was getting frustrated trying to get them to understand. By the time I distributed the materials, they had only a short time for the activity. As I reflected on this lesson, I was disappointed in myself because I had allowed a few students to slow down the lesson intentionally.

How can a novice teacher determine whether the students’ questions are genuine or just a ruse to impede the progress of the lesson? Inasmuch as Susan’s directions were effective in her three earlier classes, her first step was to look at the students who were generating the questions. Had they a history of being obstructionists?

Regardless of their intentions, however, whenever you have some students monopolizing the class’s time, you need to decentralize instruction. Susan needed to stop the questions, assign her students to their groups, and invite them to help each other, perhaps asking each group to first list the essential steps of the procedure. Circulating among the groups to see who needed help, checking first on the ones who had had questions, she would then deliver the materials to each group only upon its demonstrating an understanding of the procedure.

## Note to Susan’s Story: Teacher Expectations