Dora’s strategies were not only reactive, but the choice she offered them was really a threat, not a choice. *Using threats (or bribes) to control student behavior undermines any potential for a mutually respectful relationship.* An example of offering them a real choice would have been for her to say, “Every day, you have a choice. You can either participate cooperatively in our activities or each of you can separate from the others, sit by yourself, and get credit for the lesson by outlining the pertinent pages in the textbook.” *Offering a choice fosters autonomy rather than dependency and lessens defiance.* Instead of threatening to send a letter to their parents, Dora, by giving them a real choice, would be communicating to the boys that she, not their parents, is the authority in the classroom and that they are responsible directly to her.

How could Dora use other proactive strategies to treat the problem?

## Larry’s Story

I have two disruptive students in an eighth-grade physical science class. The purpose of one of our lessons was to learn how to calculate speed. The students were to work in pairs to design, construct, and launch a paper airplane. Then one member of the class would time the flight from liftoff to crash landing of each pair’s airplane, and another would measure the flight distance so every pair could calculate its airplane’s speed.

At first glance, this activity might seem easy to pull off, but when you introduce two students who would do anything to disrupt the learning environment, you can see that the entire lesson was at risk. So how could I prevent their spoiling the lesson?

I gave them each a leadership position to make them feel important and have a presence in the classroom, which is what they had been trying to accomplish anyway. I gave them the two big jobs, timekeeper and distance measurer, and told them I knew they could do a great job and I was counting on them. In other words, I used their personalities to our mutual advantage.

Larry used two proactive strategies to forestall the pair’s misbehavior. He assigned each of them a leadership position to redirect their behavior,