with him. And now that he feels some responsibility for the progress of the class, he doesn’t want to let me down.

Clark’s strategies with Anthony, like Gary’s with Mike, shifted from issuing threats to developing a trusting relationship. Clark’s threats were based on two misconceptions prevalent among novice teachers, namely, that a teacher can control a student’s behavior and that punishment deters misbehavior. On the contrary, teachers cannot control their students’ behaviors, although they can influence and react to them. And second, punishment does not deter misbehavior; it fosters resentment, not cooperation. Clark was successful with Anthony only when he shifted from a “doing to” to a “working with” approach. A “working with” rather than a “doing to” approach promotes student maturity.

## Scott’s Story

Gloria is an energetic girl. Sometimes she contributes appropriately to the class discussion. More often, though, she vies for attention inappropriately. Early in a lesson, she raises her hand and waits to be called on, but when I don’t call on her often enough, she gets restless.

One day, within the first few minutes of class, Gloria began shouting uncontrollably. Some outbursts were related to the lesson; others pertained to the color of my shirt or her feelings about the New York Yankees. At first, I acknowledged her comments and responded politely with the hope that the lesson could continue. Then, as her outbursts became more frequent, I asked her to raise her hand. But she only got worse.

So I decided to have a conversation with her. The next day, she came to class early, about 2 minutes before the bell. When I asked her to come up and speak with me for a moment, she approached eagerly. “Gloria, you are a **good student**,” I said, “and you bring lots of energy to the class. That’s why I need your help.”

She peered at me, her head cocked to one side. “I need you to raise your hand when you have something to say. Plus I would really appreciate it if you could help me and the rest of the class keep to the topic. Can you do that for me?”