Instead of publicly ordering him to stop his string-through-the-ring trick, Claire gave Devon an opportunity first to control his own behavior. Rather than impose control, a teacher should foster students’ self-control. Her initial strategy was **planned ignoring**. That is, she noticed his behavior but intentionally and completely ignored it. A teacher should ignore behaviors that hardly interfere with teaching or learning. Because Devon was not disturbing the rest of the class, Claire could wait to see whether he would stop by himself.

Then, when his behavior persisted, she followed up with a subtle but direct intervention, approaching his desk and looking at him disapprovingly. Nonverbal signals are better than verbal signals because they do not provoke defensive arguments or hostile confrontations. Nonverbal signals also do not interrupt the flow of the lesson, and they invite the students to control their own behavior. Whether Devon stopped in response to her look of disgust or his classmates’ derision, he came to control his own behavior.

Claire moved toward a direct intervention only when necessary. Teachers need a systematic management plan ranging from subtle to progressively more direct and intrusive interventions. Had Devon’s behavior continued, Claire would have had to intervene more intrusively. For example, if the other students were working on a set of problems, she could have stopped at his desk and said, “Let’s see how you’re doing with these problems.” If she was lecturing, she could have tapped on his desk as she circulated about the room or called on him with a straightforward question. If Devon persisted further, then she would have had to speak with him privately as the novice teachers in each of the next three stories did.

## Note to Claire’s Story: Planned Ignoring

Planned ignoring is often ineffective because even if the teacher ignores the **misbehavior**, students may encourage it. Therefore, it should be attempted only when the misbehavior is minor, such as when a student daydreams or calls out an answer.

- Brophy, J. E. (1988). Educating teachers about managing classrooms and students. *Teaching and Teacher Education*, 4, 1–18.
- Levin, J., & Nolan, J. F. (2007). *Principles of classroom management: A professional decision-making model* (5th ed.). Boston: Allyn & Bacon.