It was difficult to quiet down my afternoon class to a level low enough for me to start. For about a week, I would shout over the energized chatterboxes. Yes, I gained their attention, but I didn’t feel that the method was working. My energy was being wasted along with the class’s time. Anyway, it seemed as if I never stopped battling the noise. So I decided to use a technique I learned in my Methods of Teaching class. I would stand boldly and silently before the class. I recalled learning from that class that they would notice me and nudge one another to shush so I could begin.

The first day, I was pleased with the results. But the following day, some students in the front row used this time to ask me questions like “Will you check the homework?” and “When will we have a test?” I took this time to answer their questions and then wondered why the Silence Signal wasn’t working.

Later that week, I observed another teacher using this signal. She was successful, I saw, because she ignored all questions until she had absolute silence. So I tried again, this time ignoring the front row. Since then, I have found the Silence Signal to be a wonderful way to start each lesson and conserve my much-needed energy.

Jodi learned that *everyone needs to be quiet for the Silence Signal to work*, especially the teacher, who must model the expected behavior. Jodi also tells us that she stood boldly before the class. *Teachers can strengthen a signal with multiple cues*, a bold stance but also a resolute expression and a gesture, such as folded arms or an index finger across the lips, using that set of cues consistently with and exclusively for that signal.

**Note to Jodi’s Story: Teachers Abiding by Their Own Rules**

Jodi’s students heeded her Silence Signal only when she herself abided by it. In fact, teachers failing to abide by their own rules exacerbate disruptive behaviors because the students come to distrust those teachers, seeing them as disingenuous, as people who want only to manipulate them.