*Teachers are more likely to be successful with students who see the teacher as on their side.*

## Lorraine’s Story

Last week Candy told me that she was being hit in the back with spitballs. Students often bully Candy. Just last week someone zip-tied her backpack to her chair. The students were testing me, I had to deal with it, but I didn’t know how.

I told the class that the spitballs must stop, that those throwing them were being rude and disruptive and preventing others from learning. I also told them that everyone would have to stay after class until I found out who was doing it.

At the end of the class, two boys approached me and admitted to having thrown the spitballs, but they said they were throwing them at each other, not at Candy. They also said that others were involved, but they didn’t know who they were. Thanking them for coming forward, I let the rest of the class go. Then I told the boys that since they had known that throwing the spitballs would be wrong but they had done it anyway, I would have to write them up.

Still, I was troubled. They were the ones being punished, but those who hadn’t come forward were getting away without a consequence. Second, I wasn’t sure whether the boys had been aiming at Candy, a more serious offense than throwing the spitballs at each other.

I decided to speak with my assistant principal to see how I should have handled the situation. He said that a teacher should never punish the whole class, that writing up a student should be the last resort, and that the teacher should address a **discipline problem** herself before involving others. He also reassured me that every new teacher experiences such a problem and that you can’t know the best way to handle it until you’ve faced it a few times.

When I saw the class again, I pulled the two boys aside and told them that, yes, their behavior was inappropriate and unacceptable, but I had overreacted and wasn’t going to write them up. They were relieved,