and he expressed high expectations to promote that redirection. *Communicating high expectations is likely to improve behavior as well as achievement.* Larry was successful at least for the short term because he executed his lesson with management as well as curricular objectives in mind. *A teacher needs to consider both management and curricular objectives when planning and executing a lesson.*

## Tina’s Story

I took my geometry students outside to use similar right triangles to calculate the height of the flagpole. The first three classes went well. The students understood the concepts and cooperated. It was difficult to keep an eye on all the students, but they worked efficiently. My eighth-period class, however, was different.

After I introduced the lesson, we ventured outside. About 5 minutes later, I noticed a group of four students—my students, mind you—playing around on the far side of the building. I immediately felt betrayed, angry that they had taken advantage of me. But I took control of myself and then walked over to them and told them their behavior was unacceptable. Of course, they immediately spouted a list of excuses, but I told them the issue was not up for discussion and they needed to join the others.

All the students eventually finished the activity, and when most of them seemed to understand the concepts, we headed inside. Still, I knew I needed to talk to that group. So I took the four aside and told them that (a) I didn’t appreciate their taking advantage of the situation, (b) they are not to work together anymore, and (c) the matter was closed. To my surprise, they agreed without hesitation. I breathed a huge sigh of relief, but the encounter exhausted me physically as well as emotionally.

From this event, I learned that sometimes teachers need to be actors. We need to hide our emotions, be tough, and set the boundaries. Well, I did just that. I acted like I was in charge. If I hadn’t, they’d still be testing me.

Tina was necessarily reactive to her group’s mischief initially, but she became proactive when she took the four aside later and prohibited them