## Todd’s Story

During the last few minutes of class, I do not allow my students to get out of their seats. When they remain seated, they are more manageable than when they wander about. I also have a problem with students sitting on their desk. So occasionally I also have to ask them to sit in their chair.

One day, near the end of class, I noticed that Aaron was sitting on his desk. Instead of telling him what to do, I used my hands to frame my view of him and asked, “What’s wrong with this picture?” Turning to me, he replied, “I shouldn’t be sitting on my desk.” He then sat in his chair.

I was pleased because I knew that he understood what I expected and responded without my having to tell him. I like it when a little reminder goes a long way.

Todd needed to give Aaron only a hint to obey the rule. The hint proved to be sufficient because Aaron understood and accepted the rule and was willing to cooperate.

Thus Todd, instead of having to issue a direct order, which is more likely to engender defiance than cooperation, could simply prompt Aaron to exercise his self-control. *Rather than impose control, a teacher should foster students’ self-control.* Todd was also effective because when he corrected Aaron, he didn’t criticize him, make an example of him, or preach to him. He addressed only the situation. Teachers should **address the situation**, not the shortcomings of the student(s).

What if Aaron had not cooperated in response to Todd’s hint? Then Todd would have had to progress to a more intrusive intervention. Todd could have approached Aaron discreetly and told him what he needed to do and why, saying, for example, “I need you to sit in your chair so we can have an orderly close to the lesson.” *Students need to understand the rationale behind a rule, **routine**, or expectation, that each is not simply an arbitrary attempt to control their behavior.*

If Aaron continued to refuse to sit in his chair, Todd could then press further for his cooperation by explaining how his behavior was affecting