support of books and notes, make a concept map on a transparency using as many terms from the two lists that the pair could agree to include. Thoughtful questions usually emerge during this kind of activity.

Next, she could ask to have a few maps of each concept projected. Each pair would explain the meanings embedded in its map, while she invited the others to compare their understandings with those displayed, another opportunity for thoughtful questions to emerge.

For closure, she could have each student write an answer to this question: How has your understanding of each of the three concepts changed during this lesson? Time permitting, she could elicit some responses orally.

How could you create a lesson to assess and enhance your students’ understanding of some concepts?

## Note to Andrea’s Story: Concept Mapping

Novak and Gowin (1984) and Novak (1998) explain how concept mapping can be used as a learning and assessment tool for students (and teachers) at every grade level and for every subject. The map-maker creates a hierarchical display of concepts while precisely and concisely identifying the relationships among them.

- Novak, J. D. (1998). *Learning, creating, and using knowledge: Concept maps as facilitative tools in schools and corporations*. Mahwah, NJ: Erlbaum.
- Novak, J. D., & Gowin, D. B. (1984). *Learning how to learn*. New York: Cambridge University Press.

## Inadequate Planning for the Execution of a Lesson

### Michael’s Story

One of my first lessons was memorable because I made mistakes that could have been prevented if I had taken a little more time to plan. The lesson was a review to prepare the students for their mid-term exam. Before the review was to begin, I was going to collect the book reports that were due that day. I was also going to return their graded book