anticipate the logistical hurdles and prepare their directions and organize their materials accordingly. On the other hand, Jason (also Chapter 1) came to realize how much preparation and organization are necessary to execute a brisk, activity-based lesson. *Preparation and organization are crucial to the execution of an activity-based lesson.*

- Effective managers **overlap**; that is, they attend to more than one situation or task simultaneously. For example, they respond to an inattentive student while delivering a lecture, or they monitor the rest of the class while tutoring one student or group. Many novice teachers are not yet able to overlap. Consequently, like Barney or Arthur (Chapter 24), they might not notice a conflict budding in their classroom.
- Effective managers reflect constructively on their actions, analyze essential aspects, and devise and try out alternatives to improve their lessons. For example, Amy (Chapter 9) reflected on Friday’s chaos and revised her dissection lab for the classes scheduled to begin the activity on Monday.

When you practice many of these strategies all the time and all of these strategies some of the time, then you have become an effective classroom manager. Most of the student teachers practiced some of the strategies some of the time. Given that order is fragile and classroom events occur swiftly and often unpredictably, however, no one, not even a seasoned teacher, can perform all the strategies all the time. For example, here is the story of Gail, an effective manager and 10-year veteran at the time of her story:

## Gail’s Story

I call my last-period students my reluctant learners, just to myself, of course. Some, however, are more than that. They are the school troublemakers. Last Wednesday, just as I was about to start my lesson, the assistant principal poked his head into my room to check on whether Cal was present.

“Yes, he’s here, Mr. O’Leary.”

Mr. O’Leary then asked me to hold Cal after class. He’d been trying to nail Cal to serve a string of afterschool detentions, but Cal had