minute while I explain this.” As soon as I turned my back, he was talking again. As I leaned over the desk, I yelled, “Joe, don’t you understand English? I don’t like getting in a student’s face, but you won’t shut up!” He stopped talking for almost a minute.

After reflecting on this lesson, I came to some conclusions. First, I should have been better prepared and more organized for the lesson. Then I wouldn’t have had to interrupt the activity to get their attention. They needed many materials for the activity, and I should have had everything ready for each group. Also, the directions were complicated, and I did not have them printed on their handouts or telegraphed on the screen.

Second, I don’t think it was a good idea for me to use the threat of a test as a punishment, just as homework should not be used as a punishment. And I know it was wrong to use sarcasm. Instead, I could have moved some of the students in Joe’s group, the group that seemed to ignite the rest of the class.

I thought I was prepared for this lesson, but I learned that it takes a lot of preparation and organization to be ready for an activity-based lesson.

Jason planned a promising, activity-based lesson, but unlike Ira, he failed to prepare adequately for its execution. Noise became a problem for Jason as soon as he began to explain the directions, a clue that his students were getting confused from the very beginning. At that point, he needed to address the situation, not the shortcomings of the student(s). For example, he could have said to the class, “This noise is unacceptable. How can we keep it down?”

Jason’s story demonstrates that preparation and organization are crucial to the execution of an activity-based lesson. **Novice teachers**, however, do not yet have the repertoire of activities, let alone the foresight, to anticipate their logistical hurdles. Consequently, they face a plethora of **classroom management** problems. The following chapters present accounts of how a novice teacher dealt successfully with a classroom management problem.

**Note: Contemporary Conception of a Good Lesson**