references cite the literature in which the concept was first formulated. Others cite contemporary applications of the concept. Thus each chapter also has pointers for further study (see Index of Supplementary Concepts).

Alternatively, reading the book sequentially provides an opportunity to appreciate the range of novice teachers’ ordinary problems and strategic options. First, readers can proactively formulate their own management plan, something novice teachers desperately need but, given their unrealistic optimism, neglect to do. Such a management plan would enable them to respond temperately and consistently whenever a rule or routine is challenged.

Second, readers can see how lesson execution problems or strategies interact with discipline problems or strategies. For example, Charlotte’s inability to give clear directions (see Charlotte’s Story, Chapter 4) prompted some of her students to cheat. Likewise, a teacher can obviate some of a class clown’s disruptions (see Chapter 15) by replacing whole-class with small-group learning activities.

Third, readers can recognize the roots common to various problems and accordingly manage them with a common set of strategies. For example, reading about how to manage a class clown (see Chapter 15) can help a novice teacher like Abby (see Abby’s Story, Chapter 27) manage a student who persistently seeks her attention.

Whether selecting particular chapters or reading the book sequentially, for each story readers should ask themselves the following questions: How would I respond to this situation? Given the details of the situation, how would I justify my response? How could I use this strategy in other situations? When would the strategy be inappropriate? How do my values and beliefs compare with those implicit in the use of the strategy?

So let’s begin with a story about a student teacher who was anxious about managing her classes:

## Cora’s Story

I just started student teaching in a large urban district with a reputation for tough, hard-to-control kids. My friends and colleagues warned me that this would not be the district I’d want to stay in. All their comments