mistakes in presenting the material, and if I don’t explain a concept adequately, I would be glad to help you one-on-one if I can.”  
Since then, the student has begun to participate in class.  

Like Victoria, Gina resisted the tendency to take her student’s hostility personally. *Welcome the expression of your students’ feelings as feedback to improve your teaching.* Instead, she validated his feelings and offered him help. A “working with” rather than a “doing to” approach promotes student maturity.  

## Note to Gina’s Story: Teacher Competence  

Students regard a teacher as competent when he or she can explain course concepts clearly. They respect, like, and are motivated to learn with such a teacher. Conversely, they dislike and misbehave for a teacher who confuses them.  

- Kounin, J. S. (1970). *Discipline and group management in classrooms*. New York: Holt, Rinehart & Winston.  
- Tanner, L. N. (1978). *Classroom discipline for effective teaching and learning*. New York: Holt, Rinehart & Winston.  

## Colleen’s Story  

A boy in the back of the room asked, “What are you, stupid?” I honestly think he didn’t expect me to hear him. A girl, also in the back, had been asking me a question, and I had had to ask her to repeat it twice because my ears were clogged from a weeklong head cold.  

The boy was shocked to find out that I had heard him and immediately put his head down and apologized. Still, I confronted him about his behavior and the 5-week progress report coming up. He must have apologized at least three more times. I concluded by saying that I would never call any of my students stupid.  

Other teachers said I should have written him up [referred him to the assistant principal for disciplinary action] right then and there. Upon