frog before she had instructed them fully. Likewise, advancing the collection of materials would preclude students from toying with them after completing an activity.

Amy used a routine, the do-now, to ensure an orderly beginning to her lesson. If used consistently, a routine minimizes the time and energy needed to direct a regular classroom event. For the do-now, instead of asking her students to write down their feelings about doing the dissection, Amy could have asked each of them, given the hazards, to propose a list of safety rules. Students are likely to abide by a rule they had a share in creating.

To ensure an orderly ending to her lesson, Amy needed a routine for cleaning up. Cleaning up should never be left for the very end of a class. Plan instead to close each lesson with a redundant activity after the cleanup, such as a second summarizing activity. Then the cleanup need not be rushed. All materials can be cleaned, collected, inspected, counted, and either put away or rearranged for the next class.

Plan as well to assign cleanup roles (e.g., desk wiper) so as to delegate responsibility, concentrate accountability, and reduce traffic congestion in the classroom. Students, however, need opportunities to learn and practice a routine, including the duties associated with each role.

Amy also needed to stop the students who were shrieking as soon as they started to overreact. Instead of doing the dissection for them, she should have given them an opportunity to calm down. She could have taken their materials and given them a piece of text, such as one on frog anatomy, and a definite assignment, and then invited them to signal her if and when they were ready to begin the dissection again.

Last, Amy needed to give her students a task to complete along with the dissection, one requiring them to produce evidence of having reflected thoughtfully during the activity. **Hands-on is not enough; the task also has to be brains-on.**

For example, she could have assigned each student to choose one structure in the frog’s anatomy and write three to five sentences to explain how its design is suited to the frog’s way of life. **Students need to produce some evidence of cognitive work during an activity.**

Then, instead of giving them unstructured time for exploration, which they squandered mutilating their frog, Amy could have directed them to study its entire anatomy purposefully. **Unstructured time generates boredom, restlessness, and disruption.**