- Brophy, J. E. (1988). Educating teachers about managing classrooms and students. *Teaching and Teacher Education*, 4(1), 1–18.

## Millie’s Story

I have 30 ninth graders in my eighth-period math class. One student, Alonzo, was the class clown, trying to monopolize everyone’s attention regardless of the activity. To make matters worse, he sat next to his best friend and chatted with him when he wasn’t bidding for everyone else’s attention.

One day, a straw broke the camel’s back. The girl who sat in front of Alonzo spoke to me after class and, with tears in her eyes, reported that he had been throwing spitballs at her, kicking her chair, and poking her in the back for quite some time. When she asked to have her seat changed, I told her that I would move his instead.

Seeing Alonzo before the next class, I told him I was changing his seat. Immediately defensive, denials poured from his lips. “Whaaaat?” he said. “But I haven’t done anything wrong!” I calmly responded that if he hadn’t done anything, then he had no reason to feel guilty, but I was moving his seat anyway.

Since the move, I have heard no more complaints from the girl, and away from his buddy, Alonzo is less disruptive. His new seat is near the door, and I intend to tell him that the next move, if his disruptions persist, would be to the other side of that door.

Like Danny and Eric, Millie protected her learning environment. However, she solved only part of the problem. How could she, like Ellen, also help her student develop better self-control?

## Note: Class Clowns

Class clowns are one category of students who misbehave by persistently seeking attention (see also Chapter 27). Such students feel important only when getting attention. Consequently, reprimands work only temporarily. See Dreikurs et al. (1982) for specific interventions.