# Gary’s Story

Mike has a history of interrupting our lessons with his talking and fooling around. I have heard more than one teacher say that he is 15 going on 11. On this particular day, I had already spoken to him about his behavior at least three times. I stressed his need to stay on task and bring up his grades. Nevertheless, he continued to disrupt the class.

Earlier in the week, he and a few of the others had begun to play a game. Every so often during class, one of them would announce a celebrity’s name, a name completely unrelated to our topic. The result was the laughter of a few and the distraction of many. I had announced that I would not tolerate this behavior, but today, it began again.

I was angry that these few would continue to disrupt in the very way I had told them not to, but I was trying hard to control myself. Then, in my frustration, I did something I’d never done before. I said, “The next person to blurt out something unrelated to the lesson will be sent to the principal’s office.”

After my announcement, about 2 minutes went by before Mike muttered, “Christian Slater.” The name prompted a few chuckles and my swift action. I told Mike to leave. He had a hint of the “Who me?” expression on his face, but he left without an argument, and the lesson continued without further disruption.

In retrospect, I realize that once I voiced the consequence, I had to send him to the office. But I really don’t like to do that sort of thing. Mike and I talked before class the next day. He apologized, and we discussed our different roles in the classroom. Will he still cause disruptions? Probably, but now that we have a relationship, he may cause fewer of them.

Gary hesitated to express his anger because he didn’t know how to do it safely. *Instead of criticizing the actions of their students, teachers can safely express their anger by referring to their own feelings.* So instead of rebuking Mike and the others, he could, for example, have said, “I am upset because these outbursts are distracting from our lesson. We all deserve an opportunity to learn.” Like most novices struggling to find an appropriate