> I could have easily gone overboard and become a dictator, but I am so glad I didn’t. We have benefited so much from a cooperative and mutually respectful relationship.

---

Like Jedd, Connor recognized his own contribution to his students’ **misbehavior**. He went further than Jedd, however. He apologized to Evan and Jake after class. *Don’t be afraid to admit your mistakes*.

Connor needed a way to express his anger and reaffirm his expectations without attacking Evan and Jake. He could have said, for example, “I feel like a fool standing here without everyone’s attention. I need everyone to show me respect.” To safeguard relationships with their students, teachers need to be careful, especially when angry, to express how they feel without deprecating their students. In private, however, he did speak to them appropriately when he said, “I need your help.” He spoke about his own feelings and needs without criticizing his students, and in doing so, he fostered their self-control. *Rather than impose control, a teacher should foster students’ self-control*.

Last, Connor was effective because he demonstrated a willingness to work with Evan and Jake. A “working with” rather than a “doing to” approach promotes student maturity.

Both Jedd and Connor struggled with conceptualizing their role, an issue that teachers wrestle with throughout their novice years. Novice teachers tend to see themselves as a parent, warden, intimidator, or dictator on one hand and, when an authoritarian approach doesn’t work, as an entertainer, social director, or buddy on the other. In other words, they vacillate between extremes because they have yet to conceptualize the single role they can assume consistently.

How successful have you been conceptualizing your role as a teacher?

## Note: Metaphors and Images

The metaphors teachers use to conceptualize their role influence their choice of classroom management strategies. Because each metaphor encompasses a set of beliefs, a host of changes can follow the adoption of a new metaphor.

- Tobin, K. (1990). *Metaphors and images in teaching* (What Research Says to the Science and Mathematics Teacher, No. 5). Perth, Western Australia: Curtin University of