saw that she could use lesson planning to promote her management as well as her curricular goals. A teacher needs to consider both **management and curricular objectives** when **planning and executing** a lesson. In particular, she focused on reducing the dead time. **Dead time generates disorder.** So Leah might assign her students a 2-minute task while she is setting up, collecting, or putting away equipment or materials. She could have them individually write a summary of a video they had just seen or have them confer in pairs to compose a statement of their shared understanding of the previous learning activity. How could you reduce some of the dead time in your lessons?

### Dina’s Story

I came to learn that ninth period, the last period of the day, would be noisier than the others, especially on a Friday. This past Friday, I completed a 5-minute review of the week’s lessons, did a 10-minute PowerPoint lecture on the six simple machines and their parts, and then distributed a worksheet that involved the students working in pairs to identify the simple machines and label their parts. The students were fine in the beginning, but by the time we were ready to go over the worksheet, they were unruly and getting out of their seats.

Looking back, I realize I should have done a few things differently. For one, I should have directed my requests for quiet at the offenders instead of the entire class, and I should have directed them sooner. And I should have realized that the PowerPoint lecture was too passive an activity on a Friday afternoon. I now have more active lessons for Friday afternoons and use little techniques, like “giving the look” when someone first gets a little out of control. That’s a lot easier than having to get the whole class back on track, because disorder spreads like a California wildfire.

Like Casey and Leah, Dina’s instructional decisions came to be based on management as well as curricular considerations. Also, she began to use a more immediate but less intrusive signal, a nonverbal warning directed at the misbehavior. **Nonverbal signals are better than verbal signals because they do not provoke defensive arguments or hostile confrontations.**