On the other hand, Kohn (2006a) would argue that power-seeking students might be reacting sensibly to their being powerless.

- Kohn, A. (2006a). *Beyond discipline: From compliance to community, 10th anniversary edition*. Alexandria, VA: Association for Supervision and Curriculum Development.

## Andrea’s Story

During the previous week, I introduced three new concepts through three different activities. I was concerned that the students had experienced overload and would need more time to finish their projects and understand the concepts. So I decided to use the next class as a “work” period. I envisioned students welcoming this additional time.

I informed the students that during this lesson, they were to finish their projects. I did not provide a structure or time frame. I merely told them of this incredible opportunity to complete their work.

I couldn’t understand why they didn’t jump at the chance. But the truth hit hard when one girl, who was becoming quite proficient at writing her name in bubble letters, said to me, “You just couldn’t think of anything else for us to do.” I couldn’t have said it better myself. Although I truly believed that the students needed more time to understand the concepts, I should have provided a structure for this to happen. I just didn’t invest enough effort in planning.

*Unstructured time generates boredom, restlessness, and disruption.* Instead of blaming her students for rejecting the “incredible opportunity” she had given them, Andrea, unlike Brett, saw herself as responsible for the failure to plan, a perspective that gave her the power to prevent such failures in the future. *Only when you recognize your own contribution to a problem do you have any power to solve it.*

Andrea needed to create a lesson, aside from the project, to assess and enhance her students’ understandings of the three concepts. For example, she could start such a lesson with the following **do-now**: For the three concepts, make a list of terms you associate with each one’s meaning.

Then she could have her students work in pairs. Assigning one-third of the pairs to each concept, she could have each pair, with the additional