would castigate a student like that, especially in front of the whole class. In retrospect, I wish I hadn’t.

Quickly addressing the inappropriateness of the remark and having him stay after class to discuss the matter privately would have been the better alternative. Having gotten caught up in the spontaneous events of the classroom, I failed to recognize an issue that could have been handled better privately.

Unlike Vera’s, Ollie’s rebuke was both public and judgmental. All he accomplished was to humiliate the bully (and perhaps the victim) and demonstrate his own lack of self-control. *Teachers need to be the model of a rational, temperate, consistent, and positive adult, the only such model some of their students may ever see.*

Ollie may have overreacted to offset his earlier inaction. Novices often vacillate between extremes as they struggle to find a temperate response. Ollie, however, needed to express his anger without judging his student’s character. *To safeguard relationships with their students, teachers need to be careful, especially when angry, to express how they feel without deprecating their students.* For example, he could say, “I get upset when I hear one student mock another. We are here to help not hurt one another.” In other words, *instead of criticizing the actions of their students, teachers can safely express their anger by referring to their own feelings.*

## Sam’s Story

I was eliciting a response to this question: “Have you ever seen 100,000,000,000 of anything?” With his hand waving, I called on Gil, who said, “Yeah, dirt!”

Incredulous, I asked, “You’ve seen 100 billion dirts?”

“Yeah, every day on Marvin’s clothes.”

Gil was referring to a classmate documented as neglected at home. Several students had asked me to change their seat because of Marvin’s offensive odor.

The kids were now looking at me to see how I would respond, whether I would laugh along with them. I needed to defuse the tension immediately before the abuse escalated so I sent Gil out into the hall to