devise a scale. I simply hadn’t given them enough instruction. I should have known better. I had experienced this many times before, kids having more trouble with a set of directions than I expected. Now I had to recapture their attention and instruct them on how to set up the scales for their graph.

I wasted 20 minutes of the lesson before I could get all the groups ready to make their graphs. Now I check for students’ background knowledge and comprehension along the way before I get too far into a set of directions.

Like many novice teachers, Barbara overestimated her students’ background knowledge. Now she knows to check for understanding frequently and be ready to explain the basics.

# Tara’s Story

I planned a hands-on activity for my two earth science classes. The purpose of the lesson was for them to learn how two different kinds of fossils, molds and casts, form. I planned to have the students make both molds and casts using clay, sea shells, and play dough. First, I divided the class into six groups of about four, asked them to read the section in their textbook on molds and casts, and gave them a handout with some general directions. But I purposely did not tell them how to use the materials. I wanted them to figure out each process for themselves.

The first class went well. The students examined the materials and, with only a few pointers to the information in the textbook, were able to make their samples. Then as a class, we discussed how they figured out what to do with the materials and solve the problems they encountered. After the discussion, they placed their samples in a box, returned to their group, and examined the samples made by another group. They then had to determine whether each sample was a mold or a cast and justify their conclusion in writing. The class went well. They understood the differences between a mold and a cast and how each was formed. And they enjoyed themselves.

The second class, however, was a complete disaster. The students began by complaining about their group assignment. That should have