disappointed, I continued to sit there staring and motionless, flooded with frustration and confusion.

Next I talked to them on a personal level. I talked to them about respect, safety, learning, and acceptable behavior. I felt relieved, and from their expressions, I knew they understood. Ever since that talk, the class has been more respectful and responsive.

Before having her students begin the activity, Stephanie needed to have established safety rules and **routines**, including a cleanup routine and a signal for their immediate attention in case of an emergency. *If used consistently, a routine minimizes the time and energy needed to direct a regular classroom event.* Students, however, need opportunities to learn and practice a routine. Stephanie should therefore expect to have to provide them with reminders and feedback.

Fortunately, Stephanie had not left the cleanup for the very end of class. To ensure that it is thorough and orderly, *cleaning up should never be left for the very end of a class*. As a result, Stephanie had the opportunity after the cleanup to speak to her students calmly about her expectations and the rationale for them. *Students need to understand the rationale behind a rule, routine, or expectation, that each is not simply an arbitrary attempt to control their behavior.*

### Cynthia’s Story

On this Friday morning, I was to perform a demonstration using liquid nitrogen. I had 12 new students in my class of 27. The new students had come into the class 4 weeks into the school year, after we had already completed half the chapter. The liquid nitrogen demonstration was dangerous enough to perform without adding the uncertainty of new students, but I had promised I would do it that day and had explained to the students the safety precautions. Besides, it was a perfect demonstration for introducing the properties of matter.

The class was spellbound. One student, John, asked if he could touch the beaker that contained the liquid nitrogen. I, of course, said “No,” adding that the beaker was so cold that if he touched it, his fingers would freeze. I also showed him and emphasized to the class the